Subpart A—Acronyms and Definitions

Acronyms

§ 200.0 Acronyms.

(a) CAS Cost Accounting Standards
(b) CFR Code of Federal Regulations
(c) F&A Facilities and Administration
(d) FAC Federal Audit Clearinghouse
(e) FAIN Federal Award Identification Number
(f) FAR Federal Acquisition Regulation
(g) FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board
(h) FFATA Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 or Transparency Act, Public Law 109-282, as amended (See 31 U.S.C. 6101, statutory note)
(i) FOIA Freedom of Information Act
(j) FR Federal Register
(k) GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
(l) GAGAS Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards
(m) GASB Government Accounting Standards Board
(n) GAO Government Accountability Office
(o) GSA General Services Administration
(p) IBS Institutional Base Salary
(q) IHE Institutions of Higher Education
(r) IRC Internal Revenue Code
(s) ISDEAA Indian Self-Determination and Education and Assistance Act
(t) MTC Modified Total Cost
(u) MTDC Modified Total Direct Cost
(v) NFE Non-Federal Entity
(w) NOFO Notice of Funding Opportunity
(x) OMB Office of Management and Budget
(y) PII Personally Identifiable Information
(z) PMS Payment Management System
(aa) SAM System for Award Management (SAM.gov)
(bb) UEI Unique Entity Identifier
(cc) U.S.C. United States Code
(dd) VAT Value Added Tax

§ 200.1 Definitions.

The following is a list of definitions of key terms frequently used in 2 CFR part 200. Definitions found in Federal statutes or regulations that apply to particular programs take precedence over the following definitions. However, where the following definitions implement specific statutory requirements that apply government-wide, such as the Single Audit Act, the following definitions take precedence over Federal regulations. For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
Acquisition cost means the (total) cost of the asset including the cost to ready the asset for its intended use. For example, acquisition cost for equipment means the net invoice price of the equipment, including the cost of any modifications, attachments, accessories, or auxiliary apparatus necessary to make it usable for the purpose for which it is acquired. Acquisition costs for software include those development costs capitalized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Ancillary charges such as taxes, duty, protective in transit insurance, freight, and installation may be included in or excluded from the acquisition cost in accordance with the recipient's or subrecipient's regular accounting practices.
Advance payment means a payment that a Federal agency or pass-through entity makes by any appropriate payment mechanism and payment method before the recipient or subrecipient disburses the funds for program purposes.
Allocation means the process of assigning a cost, or a group of costs, to one or more cost objective(s), in reasonable proportion to the benefit provided or other equitable relationship. The process may entail assigning a cost(s) directly to a final cost objective or through one or more intermediate cost objectives.
Assistance Listings refer to the publicly available listing of Federal assistance programs managed and administered by the General Services Administration (GSA) at SAM.gov.
Assistance Listing number means a unique number assigned to identify an Assistance Listing.
Assistance Listing program title means the title that corresponds to the Assistance Listing number.
Audit finding means deficiencies which the auditor is required to report in the schedule of findings and questioned costs. (See § 200.516(a))
Auditee means any non-Federal entity that must be audited under this part. (See § 200.501)
Auditor means an auditor who is a public accountant or a Federal, State, local government, or Indian Tribe audit organization that meets the general standards specified for external auditors in generally accepted government auditing standards (GAGAS). The term auditor does not include internal auditors of nonprofit organizations.
Budget means the financial plan for the Federal award that the Federal agency or pass-through entity approves during the Federal award process or in subsequent amendments to the Federal award. It may include the Federal and non-Federal share or only the Federal share, as determined by the Federal agency or pass-through entity.
Budget period means the time interval from the start date of a funded portion of an award to the end date of that funded portion, during which recipients and subrecipients are authorized to incur financial obligations of the funds awarded, including any funds carried forward or other revisions pursuant to § 200.308.
Capital assets means:
(1) Tangible or intangible assets used in operations having a useful life of more than one year which are capitalized in accordance with GAAP. Capital assets include:
(i) Land, buildings (facilities), equipment, and intellectual property (including software), whether acquired by purchase, construction, manufacture, exchange, or through a lease accounted for as financed purchase under Government Accounting Standards Board (GASB) standards or a finance lease under Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) standards; and
(ii) Additions, improvements, modifications, replacements, rearrangements, reinstallations, renovations, or alterations to capital assets that materially increase their value or useful life (not ordinary repairs and maintenance).
(2) For purpose of this part, capital assets do not include intangible right-to-use assets (per GASB) and right-to-use operating lease assets (per FASB). For example, assets capitalized that recognize a lessee's right to control the use of property or equipment for a period of time under a lease contract. See § 200.465.
Capital expenditures means expenditures to acquire capital assets or expenditures to make additions, improvements, modifications, replacements, rearrangements, reinstallations, renovations, or alterations to capital assets that materially increase their value or useful life.
Central service cost allocation plan means the documentation identifying, accumulating, and allocating or developing billing rates based on the allowable costs of services provided by a State, local government, or Indian Tribe to its departments and agencies on a centralized basis. The costs of these services may be allocated or billed to users.
Claim means, depending on the context, either:
(1) A written demand or assertion by one of the parties to a Federal award seeking as a matter of right:
(i) The payment of money;
(ii) The adjustment or interpretation of the terms and conditions of the Federal award; or
(iii) Other relief arising under or relating to a Federal award.
(2) A request for payment not in dispute when submitted.
Class of Federal awards means a group of Federal awards either awarded under a specific program or group of programs or to a specific type of recipient or group of recipients to which specific provisions or exceptions may apply.
Closeout means the process by which the Federal agency or pass-through entity determines that all applicable administrative actions and all required work of the Federal award have been completed and takes actions as described in § 200.344.
Cluster of programs means a grouping of closely related programs that share common compliance requirements. The types of clusters of programs are research and development (R&D), student financial aid (SFA), and other clusters. “Other clusters” are defined by OMB in the compliance supplement or designated by a State for Federal awards the State provides to its subrecipients that meet the definition of a cluster of programs. When designating “other clusters,” a State must identify the Federal awards included in the cluster and advise the subrecipients of compliance requirements applicable to the cluster, consistent with § 200.332. A cluster of programs must be considered one program when determining major programs as described in § 200.518, and with the exception of R&D as described in § 200.501(d), whether a program-specific audit may be elected.
Cognizant agency for audit means the Federal agency designated to carry out the responsibilities described in § 200.513(a). The cognizant agency for audit is not necessarily the same as the cognizant agency for indirect costs. A list of Federal agency Single Audit contacts can be found on the Federal Audit Clearinghouse (FAC) website.
Cognizant agency for indirect costs means the Federal agency responsible for reviewing, negotiating and approving cost allocation plans or indirect cost proposals on behalf of all Federal agencies. The cognizant agency for indirect cost is not necessarily the same as the cognizant agency for audit. For assignments of cognizant agencies, see the following:
(1) For Institutions of Higher Education (IHEs): Appendix III, paragraph C.11.
(2) For nonprofit organizations: Appendix IV, paragraph C.2.a.
(3) For State and local governments: Appendix V, paragraph F.1.
(4) For Indian Tribes: Appendix VII, paragraph D.1.
Compliance supplement means an annually updated authoritative source of information for auditors that identifies existing important compliance requirements that the Federal Government expects to be considered as part of an audit. Auditors use it to understand the Federal program's objectives, procedures, and compliance requirements, as well as audit objectives and suggested audit procedures for determining compliance with the relevant Federal program.
Computing devices means machines that acquire, store, analyze, process, and publish data and other information electronically, including accessories (or “peripherals”) for printing, transmitting and receiving, or storing electronic information. See also the definitions of supplies and information technology systems in this section.
Contract means, for the purpose of Federal financial assistance, a legal instrument by which a recipient or subrecipient conducts procurement transactions under a Federal award. For additional information on subrecipient and contractor determinations, see § 200.331. See also the definition of subaward in this section.
Contractor means an entity that receives a contract.
Continuation funding means the second or subsequent budget period within an identified period of performance.
Cooperative agreement means a legal instrument of financial assistance between a Federal agency and a recipient or between a pass-through entity and subrecipient, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6302-6305:
(1) Is used to enter into a relationship the principal purpose of which is to transfer anything of value to carry out a public purpose authorized by a law of the United States (see 31 U.S.C. 6101(3)); and not to acquire property or services for the Federal Government or pass-through entity's direct benefit or use;
(2) Is distinguished from a grant in that it provides for substantial involvement of the Federal agency or pass-through entity in carrying out the activity contemplated by the Federal award.
(3) The term does not include:
(i) A cooperative research and development agreement as defined in 15 U.S.C. 3710a; or
(ii) An agreement that provides only:
(A) Direct United States Government cash assistance to an individual;
(B) A subsidy;
(C) A loan;
(D) A loan guarantee; or
(E) Insurance.
Corrective action means action taken by the auditee that:
(1) Corrects identified deficiencies;
(2) Produces recommended improvements; or
(3) Demonstrates that audit findings are either invalid or do not warrant auditee action.
Cost allocation plan means a central service or public assistance cost allocation plan.
Cost objective means a program, function, activity, award, organizational subdivision, contract, or work unit for which cost data are desired and for which provision is made to accumulate and measure the cost of processes, products, jobs, and capital projects. A cost objective may be a major function of the recipient or subrecipient, a particular service or project, a Federal award, or an indirect cost activity, as described in subpart E. See also the definitions of final cost objective and intermediate cost objective in this section.
Cost sharing means the portion of project costs not paid by Federal funds or contributions (unless authorized by Federal statute). This term includes matching, which refers to required levels of cost share that must be provided. See § 200.306.
Disallowed cost means charges to a Federal award that the Federal agency or pass-through entity determines to be unallowable in accordance with applicable Federal statutes, regulations, the provisions of this part, or the terms and conditions of the Federal award.
Discretionary award means an award in which the Federal agency, in keeping with specific statutory authority that enables the agency to exercise judgment (“discretion”), selects the recipient or the amount of Federal funding awarded through a competitive process or based on merit of proposals. A discretionary award may be selected on a non-competitive basis, as appropriate.
Equipment means tangible personal property (including information technology systems) having a useful life of more than one year and a per-unit acquisition cost that equals or exceeds the lesser of the capitalization level established by the recipient or subrecipient for financial statement purposes, or $10,000. See the definitions of capital assets, computing devices, general purpose equipment, information technology systems, special purpose equipment, and supplies in this section.
Expenditures means charges made by a recipient or subrecipient to a project or program for which a Federal award is received.
(1) The charges may be reported on a cash or accrual basis as long as the methodology is disclosed and consistently applied.
(2) For reports prepared on a cash basis, expenditures are the sum of:
(i) Cash disbursements for direct charges for property and services;
(ii) The amount of indirect expense charged;
(iii) The value of third-party in-kind contributions applied; and
(iv) The amount of cash advance payments and payments made to subrecipients.
(3) For reports prepared on an accrual basis, expenditures are the sum of:
(i) Cash disbursements for direct charges for property and services;
(ii) The amount of indirect expense incurred;
(iii) The value of third-party in-kind contributions applied; and
(iv) The net increase or decrease in the amounts owed by the recipient or subrecipient for:
(A) Goods and other property received;
(B) Services performed by employees, contractors, subrecipients, and other payees; and
(C) Programs for which no current services or performance are required, such as annuities, insurance claims, or other benefit payments.
Federal agency means an “agency” as defined at 5 U.S.C. 551(1) and further clarified by 5 U.S.C. 552(f). The term generally refers to the agency that provides a Federal award directly to a recipient unless the context indicates otherwise. See also definitions of Federal award and recipient.
Federal Audit Clearinghouse (FAC) means the repository of record designated by OMB where non-Federal entities must transmit the information required by subpart F.
Federal award has the meaning, depending on the context, in either paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition:
(1)(i) The Federal financial assistance that a recipient receives directly from a Federal agency or indirectly from a pass-through entity, as described in § 200.101; or
(ii) The cost-reimbursement contract under the Federal Acquisition Regulation that a non-Federal entity receives directly from a Federal agency or indirectly from a pass-through entity, as described in § 200.101.
(2) The instrument setting forth the terms and conditions. The instrument is the grant agreement, cooperative agreement, other agreement for assistance covered in paragraph (2) of the definition of Federal financial assistance in this section, or the cost-reimbursement contract awarded under the Federal Acquisition Regulations.
(3) Federal award does not include other contracts that a Federal agency uses to buy goods or services from a contractor or a contract to operate government-owned, contractor- operated (GOCO) facilities.
(4) See also definitions of Federal financial assistance, grant agreement, and cooperative agreement.
Federal award date means the date when the authorized official of the Federal agency signed (physically or digitally) the Federal award or when an alternative, consistent with the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 1501, is reached with the recipient.
Federal financial assistance means:
(1) Assistance that recipients or subrecipients receive or administer in the form of:
(i) Grants;
(ii) Cooperative agreements;
(iii) Non-cash contributions or donations of property (including donated surplus property);
(iv) Direct appropriations;
(v) Food commodities; and
(vi) Other financial assistance (except assistance listed in paragraph (2) of this definition).
(2) For § 200.203 and subpart F of this part, Federal financial assistance also includes assistance that recipients or subrecipients receive or administer in the form of:
(i) Loans;
(ii) Loan Guarantees;
(iii) Interest subsidies; and
(iv) Insurance.
(3) For § 200.216, Federal financial assistance includes assistance that recipients or subrecipients receive or administer in the form of:
(i) Grants;
(ii) Cooperative agreements;
(iii) Loans; and
(iv) Loan Guarantees.
(4) Federal financial assistance does not include amounts received as reimbursement for services rendered to individuals as described in § 200.502(h) and (i).
(5) For part 184 of this title, in addition to the forms of assistance listed in paragraph (1) of this definition, Federal financial assistance also includes assistance that recipients or subrecipients receive or administer in the form of:
(i) Loans; and
(ii) Loan Guarantees.
Federal interest means, for purposes of § 200.330 or when used in connection with the acquisition or improvement of real property, equipment, or supplies under a Federal award, the dollar amount that is the product of the:
(1) The percentage of Federal participation in the total cost of the real property, equipment, or supplies; and
(2) Current fair market value of the property, improvements, or both, to the extent the costs of acquiring or improving the property were included as project costs.
Federal program means:
(1) All Federal awards which are assigned a single Assistance Listings Number.
(2) When no Assistance Listings Number is assigned, all Federal awards from the same agency made for the same purpose must be combined and considered one program.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2) of this definition, a cluster of programs. The types of clusters of programs are:
(i) Research and development (R&D);
(ii) Student financial aid (SFA); and
(iii) “Other clusters,” as described in the definition of cluster of programs in this section. Federal share means the portion of the Federal award costs paid using Federal funds.
Final cost objective means a cost objective that has allocated to it both direct and indirect costs and, in the recipient's or subrecipient's accumulation system, is one of the final accumulation points, such as a particular award, internal project, or other direct activity of a recipient or subrecipient. See also the definitions of cost objective and intermediate cost objective in this section.
Financial obligations means orders placed for property and services, contracts and subawards made, and similar transactions that require payment by a recipient or subrecipient under a Federal award that will result in expenditures by a recipient or subrecipient under a Federal award.
Fixed amount award means a type of grant or cooperative agreement pursuant to which the Federal agency or pass-through entity provides a specific amount of funding without regard to actual costs incurred under the Federal award. This type of Federal award reduces some of the administrative burden and record-keeping requirements for both the recipient or subrecipient and the Federal agency or pass-through entity. Accountability is based primarily on performance and results. See §§ 200.102(c), 200.101(b), 200.201(b), and 200.333.
For-profit organization generally means an organization or entity organized for the purpose of earning a profit. The term includes but is not limited to:
(1) An “S corporation” incorporated under subchapter S of the Internal Revenue Code;
(2) A corporation incorporated under another authority;
(3) A partnership;
(4) A limited liability company or partnership; and
(5) A sole proprietorship.
Foreign organization means an entity that is:
(1) A public or private organization located in a country other than the United States and its territories that is subject to the laws of the country in which it is located, irrespective of the citizenship of project staff or place of performance;
(2) A private nongovernmental organization located in a country other than the United States that solicits and receives cash contributions from the general public;
(3) A charitable organization located in a country other than the United States that is nonprofit and tax-exempt under the laws of the country where it is registered and is not a university, college, accredited degree-granting institution of education, private foundation, hospital, an organization engaged exclusively in research or scientific activities, church, synagogue, mosque or other similar entities organized primarily for religious purposes; or
(4) An organization located in a country other than the United States not recognized as a foreign public entity.
Foreign public entity means:
(1) A foreign government or foreign governmental entity;
(2) A public international organization, which is an organization entitled to enjoy privileges, exemptions, and immunities as an international organization under the International Organizations Immunities Act (22 U.S.C. 288-288f);
(3) An entity owned (in whole or in part) or controlled by a foreign government; or
(4) Any other entity consisting wholly or partially of one or more foreign governments or foreign governmental entities.
General purpose equipment means equipment that is not limited to research, medical, scientific, or other technical activities. Examples include office equipment and furnishings, modular offices, telephone networks, information technology equipment and systems, air conditioning equipment, reproduction and printing equipment, and motor vehicles. See also the definitions of equipment and special purpose equipment in this section.
Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) has the meaning specified in accounting standards issued by the Government Accounting Standards Board (GASB) and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB).
Generally accepted government auditing standards (GAGAS), also known as the Yellow Book, means generally accepted government auditing standards issued by the Comptroller General of the United States, which apply to financial audits.
Grant agreement or grant means a legal instrument of financial assistance between a Federal agency and a recipient or between a pass-through entity and a subrecipient, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6302, 6304:
(1) Is used to enter into a relationship, the principal purpose of which is to transfer anything of value to carry out a public purpose authorized by a law of the United States (see 31 U.S.C. 6101(3)); and not to acquire property or services for the Federal agency or pass-through entity's direct benefit or use;
(2) Is distinguished from a cooperative agreement in that it does not provide for substantial involvement of the Federal agency in carrying out the activity contemplated by the Federal award.
(3) Does not include an agreement that provides only:
(i) Direct United States Government cash assistance to an individual;
(ii) A subsidy;
(iii) A loan;
(vi) A loan guarantee; or
(v) Insurance.
Highest-level owner means the entity that owns or controls an immediate owner of an applicant or that owns or controls one or more entities that control an immediate owner of an applicant. No entity owns or exercises control of the highest-level owner as defined in the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) (48 CFR 52.204-17).
Hospital means a facility licensed as a hospital under the law of any State or a facility operated as a hospital by the United States, a State, or a subdivision of a State.
Improper payment means a payment that should not have been made or that was made in an incorrect amount under statutory, contractual, administrative, or other legally applicable requirements. The term improper payment includes: any payment to an ineligible recipient; any payment for an ineligible good or service; any duplicate payment; any payment for a good or service not received, except for those payments where authorized by law; any payment that is not authorized by law; and any payment that does not account for credit for applicable discounts. See OMB Circular A-123 Appendix C, Requirements for Payment Integrity Improvement for additional definitions and guidance on the requirements for payment integrity.
Indian Tribe means any Indian Tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. Chapter 33), which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians. See 25 U.S.C. 5304(e). This includes any Indian Tribe identified in the annually published Bureau of Indian Affairs list of “Indian Entities Recognized and Eligible to Receive Services” and other entities that qualify as an Alaska Native village or regional village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act.
Indirect cost means those costs incurred for a common or joint purpose benefitting more than one cost objective and not readily assignable to the cost objectives specifically benefitted, without effort disproportionate to the results achieved. It may be necessary to establish multiple pools of indirect costs to facilitate equitable distribution of indirect expenses to the cost objectives served. Indirect cost pools must be distributed to benefitted cost objectives on basis that will produce an equitable result in consideration of relative benefits derived. For Institutions of Higher Education (IHE), the term facilities and administrative (F&A) cost is often used to refer to indirect costs.
Indirect cost rate proposal means the documentation prepared by a recipient to substantiate its request to establish an indirect cost rate as described in appendices III through VII and appendix IX to this part.
Information technology systems means computing devices, ancillary equipment, software, firmware, and related procedures, services (including support services), and resources. See also the definitions of computing devices and equipment in this section.
Institution of Higher Education (IHE) is defined at 20 U.S.C. 1001.
Intangible property means property having no physical existence, such as trademarks, copyrights, data (including data licenses), websites, IP licenses, trade secrets, patents, patent applications, and property such as loans, notes and other debt instruments, lease agreements, stocks and other instruments of property ownership of either tangible or intangible property, such as intellectual property, software, or software subscriptions or licenses.
Intermediate cost objective means a cost objective that is used to accumulate indirect costs or service center costs that are subsequently allocated to one or more indirect cost pools or final cost objectives. See this section's definitions of cost objective and final cost objective.
Internal control for recipients and subrecipients means processes designed and implemented by recipients and subrecipients to provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of objectives in the following categories:
(1) Effectiveness and efficiency of operations;
(2) Reliability of reporting for internal and external use; and
(3) Compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
Loan means a Federal loan or loan guarantee received or administered by a recipient or subrecipient, except as used in this section's definition of program income.
(1) The term “direct loan” means a disbursement of funds by the Federal Government to a non-Federal borrower under a contract that requires the repayment of such funds with or without interest. The term includes the purchase of, or participation in, a loan made by another lender and financing arrangements that defer payment for more than 90 days, including the sale of a Federal Government asset on credit terms. The term does not include the acquisition of a federally guaranteed loan in satisfaction of default claims or the price support loans of the Commodity Credit Corporation.
(2) The term “direct loan obligation” means a binding agreement by a Federal agency to make a direct loan when specified conditions are fulfilled by the borrower.
(3) The term “loan guarantee” means any Federal Government guarantee, insurance, or other pledges for the payment of all or a part of the principal or interest on any debt obligation of a non-Federal borrower to a non-Federal lender but does not include the insurance of deposits, shares, or other withdrawable accounts in financial institutions.
(4) The term “loan guarantee commitment” means a binding agreement by a Federal agency to make a loan guarantee when specified conditions are fulfilled by the borrower, the lender, or any other party to the guarantee agreement.
Local government means any unit of government within a State, including a:
(1) County;
(2) Borough;
(3) Municipality;
(4) City;
(5) Town;
(6) Township;
(7) Parish;
(8) Local public authority, including any public housing agency under the United States Housing Act of 1937;
(9) Special district;
(10) School district;
(11) Intrastate district;
(12) Council of governments, whether or not incorporated as a nonprofit corporation under State law; and
(13) Any other agency or instrumentality of a multi-, regional, or intra-State or local government.
Major program means a Federal program determined by the auditor to be a major program in accordance with § 200.518 or a program identified as a major program by a Federal agency or pass-through entity in accordance with § 200.503(e).
Management decision means the Federal agency's or pass-through entity's written determination, provided to the auditee, of the adequacy of the auditee's proposed corrective actions to address the findings based on its evaluation of the audit findings and proposed corrective actions.
Micro-purchase means an individual procurement transaction for supplies or services, the aggregate amount of which does not exceed the micro-purchase threshold. Micro-purchases comprise a subset of a recipient's or subrecipient's small purchases using informal procurement methods as set forth in § 200.320.
Micro-purchase threshold means the dollar amount at or below which a recipient or subrecipient may purchase property, or services using micro-purchase procedures (see § 200.320). Generally, except as provided in § 200.320, the micro-purchase threshold for procurement activities administered under Federal awards is not to exceed the amount set by the FAR at 48 CFR part 2, subpart 2.1, unless a higher threshold is requested by the recipient or subrecipient and approved by the cognizant agency for indirect costs.
Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC) means all direct salaries and wages, applicable fringe benefits, materials and supplies, services, travel, and up to the first $50,000 of each subaward (regardless of the period of performance of the subawards under the award). MTDC excludes equipment, capital expenditures, charges for patient care, rental costs, tuition remission, scholarships and fellowships, participant support costs, and the portion of each subaward in excess of $50,000. Other items may only be excluded when necessary to avoid a serious inequity in the distribution of indirect costs and with the approval of the cognizant agency for indirect costs.
Non-discretionary award means an award made by the Federal agency to specific recipients in accordance with statutory, eligibility, and compliance requirements, such that in keeping with specific statutory authority, the Federal agency cannot exercise judgment (“discretion”). A non-discretionary award amount could be specifically determined or by formula.
Non-Federal entity (NFE) means a State, local government, Indian Tribe, Institution of Higher Education (IHE), or nonprofit organization that carries out a Federal award as a recipient or subrecipient.
Nonprofit organization means any organization that:
(1) Is operated primarily for scientific, educational, service, charitable, or similar purposes in the public interest;
(2) Is not organized primarily for profit;
(3) Uses net proceeds to maintain, improve, or expand the organization's operations; and
(4) Is not an IHE.
Notice of funding opportunity means a formal announcement of the availability of Federal funding through a financial assistance program from a Federal agency. The notice of funding opportunity provides information on the award, such as who is eligible to apply, the evaluation criteria for selecting a recipient or subrecipient, the required components of an application, and how to submit the application. The notice of funding opportunity is any paper or electronic issuance that an agency uses to announce a funding opportunity, whether it is called a “program announcement,” “notice of funding availability,” “broad agency announcement,” “research announcement,” “solicitation,” or some other term.
Office of Management and Budget (OMB) means the Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget.
Oversight agency for audit means the Federal agency that provides the predominant amount of funding directly (direct funding) (as listed on the schedule of expenditures of Federal awards, see § 200.510(b)) to a recipient or subrecipient unless OMB designates a specific cognizant agency for audit. When the direct funding represents less than 25 percent of the total Federal expenditures (as direct and sub-awards) by the recipient or subrecipient, then the Federal agency with the predominant amount of total funding is the designated oversight agency for audit. When there is no direct funding, the Federal agency that is the predominant source of pass-through funding must assume the oversight responsibilities. The duties of the oversight agency for audit and the process for any reassignments are described in § 200.513(b).
Participant generally means an individual participating in or attending program activities under a Federal award, such as trainings or conferences, but who is not responsible for implementation of the Federal award. Individuals committing effort to the development or delivery of program activities under a Federal award (such as consultants, project personnel, or staff members of a recipient or subrecipient) are not participants. Examples of participants may include community members participating in a community outreach program, members of the public whose perspectives or input are sought as part of a program, students, or conference attendees.
Participant support costs means direct costs that support participants (see definition for Participant in § 200.1) and their involvement in a Federal award, such as stipends, subsistence allowances, travel allowances, registration fees, temporary dependent care, and per diem paid directly to or on behalf of participants.
Pass-through entity means a recipient or subrecipient that provides a subaward to a subrecipient (including lower tier subrecipients) to carry out part of a Federal program. The authority of the pass-through entity under this part flows through the subaward agreement between the pass-through entity and subrecipient.
Performance goal means a measurable target level of performance expressed as a tangible, measurable objective, against which actual achievement can be compared, including a goal expressed as a quantitative standard, value, or rate. In some instances (for example, discretionary research awards), this may be limited to the requirement to submit technical performance reports (to be evaluated in accordance with agency policy).
Period of performance means the time interval between the start and end date of a Federal award, which may include one or more budget periods. Identification of the period of performance in the Federal award consistent with § 200.211(b)(5) does not commit the Federal agency to fund the award beyond the currently approved budget period.
Personal property means property other than real property. It may be tangible or intangible.
Personally Identifiable Information (PII) means information that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual's identity, either alone or when combined with other personal or identifying information that is linked or linkable to a specific individual. Some PII is available in public sources such as telephone books, websites, and university listings. The definition of PII is not attached to any single category of information or technology. Instead, it requires a case-by-case assessment of the specific risk that an individual can be identified. Non-PII can become PII whenever additional information is made publicly available, in any medium and from any source, that could be used to identify an individual when combined with other available information.
Prior approval means the written approval obtained in advance by an authorized official of a Federal agency or pass-through entity of certain costs or programmatic decisions.
Program income means gross income earned by the recipient or subrecipient that is directly generated by a supported activity or earned as a result of the Federal award during the period of performance except as provided in § 200.307(c). Program income includes but is not limited to income from fees for services performed, the use or rental of real or personal property acquired under Federal awards, the sale of commodities or items fabricated under a Federal award, license fees, and royalties on patents and copyrights, and principal and interest on loans made with Federal award funds. Interest earned on advances of Federal funds is not program income. Except as otherwise provided in Federal statutes, regulations, or the terms and conditions of the Federal award, program income does not include rebates, credits, discounts, and interest earned on any of them. See § 200.407. See also 35 U.S.C. 200-212 “Disposition of Rights in Educational Awards,” which applies to inventions made under Federal awards.
Project cost means total allowable costs incurred under a Federal award and all cost sharing, including third-party contributions.
Property means real property or personal property. See this section's definitions of real property and personal property.
Protected Personally Identifiable Information (Protected PII) means PII (see definition in this section), except for PII that must be disclosed by law. Examples of PII include, but are not limited to, social security number; passport number; credit card numbers; clearances, bank numbers; biometrics; date and place of birth; mother's maiden name; criminal, medical and financial records; and educational transcripts.
Questioned cost has the meaning given in paragraphs (1) through (3).
(1) Questioned cost means an amount, expended or received from a Federal award, that in the auditor's judgment:
(i) Is noncompliant or suspected noncompliant with Federal statutes, regulations, or the terms and conditions of the Federal award;
(ii) At the time of the audit, lacked adequate documentation to support compliance; or
(iii) Appeared unreasonable and did not reflect the actions a prudent person would take in the circumstances.
(2) The questioned cost amount under (1)(ii) is calculated as if the portion of a transaction that lacked adequate documentation were confirmed noncompliant.
(3) There is no questioned cost solely because of:
(i) Deficiencies in internal control; or
(ii) Noncompliance with the reporting type of compliance requirement (described in the compliance supplement) if this noncompliance does not affect the amount expended or received from the Federal award.
(4) Known questioned cost means a questioned cost specifically identified by the auditor. Known questioned costs are a subset of likely questioned costs.
(5) Likely questioned cost means the auditor's best estimate of total questioned costs, not just the known questioned costs. Likely questioned costs are developed by extrapolating from audit evidence obtained, for example, by projecting known questioned costs identified in an audit sample to the entire population from which the sample was drawn. In evaluating the effect of questioned costs on the opinion on compliance, the auditor considers the likely questioned costs, not just the known questioned costs.
(6) Questioned costs are not improper payments until reviewed and confirmed to be improper payments as defined in OMB Circular A-123 Appendix C.
Real property means land, including land improvements, structures, and appurtenances thereto, and legal interests in land, including fee interest, licenses, rights of way, and easements. Real property excludes moveable machinery and equipment.
Recipient means an entity that receives a Federal award directly from a Federal agency to carry out an activity under a Federal program. The term recipient does not include subrecipients or individuals that are participants or beneficiaries of the award.
Renewal award means a Federal award for which the start date is contiguous with, or closely follows, the end of the expiring Federal award. The start date of a renewal award begins a new and distinct period of performance.
Research and Development (R&D) means all basic and applied research activities and all development activities performed by a recipient or subrecipient. The term research also includes activities involving the training of individuals in research techniques where such activities use the same facilities as other research and development activities and where such activities are not included in the instruction function. “Research” is the systematic study directed toward fuller scientific knowledge or understanding of the subject studied. “Development” is the systematic use of knowledge and understanding gained from research to produce useful materials, devices, systems, or methods, including designing and developing prototypes and processes.
Simplified acquisition threshold means the dollar amount below which a recipient or subrecipient may purchase property or services using small purchase methods (see § 200.320). Recipients and subrecipients adopt small purchase procedures to expedite the purchase of items at or below the simplified acquisition threshold. The simplified acquisition threshold set in the FAR at 48 CFR part 2, subpart 2.1 is used in this part as the simplified acquisition threshold for secondary procurement activities administered under Federal awards. The recipient or subrecipient is responsible for determining an appropriate simplified acquisition threshold, which is less than or equal to the dollar value established in the FAR, based on internal controls, an evaluation of risk, and its documented procurement procedures. Recipients and subrecipients should also determine if local government purchasing laws apply. This threshold must never exceed the dollar value established in the FAR.
Special purpose equipment means equipment that is used only for research, medical, scientific, or other similar technical activities. Examples of special purpose equipment include microscopes, x-ray machines, surgical instruments, spectrometers, and associated software. See also the definitions of equipment and general purpose equipment in this section.
State means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and any agency or instrumentality thereof exclusive of local governments.
Student Financial Aid (SFA) means Federal awards under those programs of general student assistance, such as those authorized by Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (20 U.S.C. 1070-1099d), which the U.S. Department of Education administers, and similar programs provided by other Federal agencies. It does not include Federal awards under programs that provide fellowships or similar Federal awards to students on a competitive basis or for specified studies or research.
Subaward means an award provided by a pass-through entity to a subrecipient for the subrecipient to contribute to the goals and objectives of the project by carrying out part of a Federal award received by the pass-through entity. It does not include payments to a contractor, beneficiary, or participant. A subaward may be provided through any form of legal agreement consistent with criteria in with § 200.331, including an agreement the pass-through entity considers a contract.
Subrecipient means an entity that receives a subaward from a pass-through entity to carry out part of a Federal award. The term subrecipient does not include a beneficiary or participant. A subrecipient may also be a recipient of other Federal awards directly from a Federal agency.
Subsidiary means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned or controlled directly by a parent corporation or through another subsidiary of a parent corporation.
Supply means all tangible personal property other than those described in the equipment definition. A computing device is a supply if the acquisition cost is below the lesser of the capitalization level established by the recipient or subrecipient for financial statement purposes or $10,000, regardless of the length of its useful life. See this section's definitions of computing devices and equipment.
Telecommunications cost means the cost of using communication technologies such as mobile phones, landlines, and the internet.
Termination means the action a Federal agency or pass-through entity takes to discontinue a Federal award, in whole or in part, at any time before the planned end date of the period of performance. Termination does not include discontinuing a Federal award due to a lack of available funds.
Third-party in-kind contributions means the value of non-cash contributions (meaning, property or services) that:
(1) Benefit a project or program funded by a Federal award; and
(2) Are contributed by non-Federal third parties, without charge, to a recipient or subrecipient under a Federal award.
Unliquidated financial obligation means financial obligations incurred by the recipient or subrecipient but not paid (liquidated) for financial reports prepared on a cash basis. For reports prepared on an accrual basis, these are financial obligations incurred by the recipient or subrecipient but for which expenditures have not been recorded.
Unobligated balance means the amount of funds under a Federal award that the recipient or subrecipient has not obligated. The amount is computed by subtracting the cumulative amount of the recipient's or subrecipient's unliquidated financial obligations and expenditures under the Federal award from the cumulative amount of funds the Federal agency or pass-through entity authorized the recipient or subrecipient to obligate.
Voluntary committed cost sharing means cost sharing specifically pledged voluntarily in the proposal's budget on the part of the recipient or subrecipient, which becomes a binding requirement of the Federal award. See § 200.306.
[89 FR 30136, Apr. 22, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 79732, Oct. 1, 2024]
