PART 744—CONTROL POLICY: END-USER AND END-USE BASED

Authority:50 U.S.C. 4801-4852; 50 U.S.C. 4601 et seq.; 50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.; 22 U.S.C. 3201 et seq.; 42 U.S.C. 2139a; 22 U.S.C. 7201 et seq.; 22 U.S.C. 7210; E.O. 12058, 43 FR 20947, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 179; E.O. 12851, 58 FR 33181, 3 CFR, 1993 Comp., p. 608; E.O. 12938, 59 FR 59099, 3 CFR, 1994 Comp., p. 950; E.O. 13026, 61 FR 58767, 3 CFR, 1996 Comp., p. 228; E.O. 13099, 63 FR 45167, 3 CFR, 1998 Comp., p. 208; E.O. 13222, 66 FR 44025, 3 CFR, 2001 Comp., p. 783; E.O. 13224, 66 FR 49079, 3 CFR, 2001 Comp., p. 786; Notice of August 4, 2025, 90 FR 37999 (August 6, 2025); Notice of September 8, 2025, 90 FR 43903 (September 10, 2025); Notice of November 5, 2025, 90 FR 50737 (November 7, 2025).
Source:61 FR 12802, Mar. 25, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

§ 744.1 General provisions.

(a)(1) Introduction. In this part, references to the EAR are references to 15 CFR chapter VII, subchapter C. This part contains prohibitions against exports, reexports, and selected transfers to certain end users and end uses as introduced under General Prohibitions Five (End use/End users) and Nine (Orders, Terms, and Conditions), unless authorized by BIS. Sections 744.2, 744.3, and 744.4 prohibit exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of items subject to the EAR to defined nuclear, missile, and chemical and biological weapons proliferation activities. Section 744.5 prohibits exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of items subject to the EAR to defined nuclear maritime end-uses. Consistent with General Prohibition Seven (Support of Proliferation Activities and certain Military-Intelligence End Uses and End Users (“U.S. person” activities)), § 744.6 prohibits specific activities by U.S. persons in support of certain nuclear, missile, chemical and biological weapons end uses, and whole plants for chemical weapons precursors, as well as certain military-intelligence end uses and military-intelligence end users. Section 744.7 prohibits exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of certain items for certain aircraft and vessels. Section 744.8 prohibits exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) without authorization when a person designated on the list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List) pursuant to certain specified sanctions programs is a party to the transaction. Section 744.9 sets forth restrictions on exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of certain cameras, systems, or related components. Section 744.11 imposes license requirements, to the extent specified in supplement no. 4 to this part, on entities listed in supplement no. 4 to this part for activities contrary to the national security or foreign policy interests of the United States. Section 744.15 sets forth the conditions for exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) to persons listed on the Unverified List (UVL) in supplement no. 6 to this part, the criteria for revising the UVL, as well as procedures for requesting removal or modification of a listing on the UVL. Section 744.16 sets forth the license requirements, policies and procedures for the Entity List. Section 744.17 sets forth restrictions on exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of microprocessors and associated “software” and “technology” for military end uses and to military end users. Section 744.19 sets forth BIS's licensing policy for applications for export, reexport, and transfer (in-country) when a party to the transaction is an entity that has been sanctioned pursuant to any of three specified statutes that require certain license applications to be denied. In addition, these sections include license review standards for export, reexport, and in-country transfer license applications submitted as required by these sections. It should also be noted that part 764 of the EAR prohibits exports, reexports, and certain transfers of items subject to the EAR to denied parties. Section 744.21 imposes restrictions for exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of item subject to the EAR listed in supplement no. 2 to this part for a military end use or military end user in Burma, Cambodia, the People's Republic of China (PRC or China), Nicaragua, or Venezuela and for a Burmese, Cambodian, Chinese, Nicaraguan, or Venezuelan military end user if identified in supplement no. 7 to this part. Section 744.21 also imposes restrictions for exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) for all items subject to the EAR for a military end use or military end user in Belarus or Russia and for a Belarusian or Russian military end user wherever located if identified on supplement no. 4 to this part. Section 744.22 imposes restrictions on exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) for a military-intelligence end use or military-intelligence end user in Burma, China, Russia, or Venezuela; or for a country listed in Country Groups E:1 or E:2 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR). Section 744.23 sets forth restrictions on exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) for certain “supercomputer” and semiconductor manufacturing end use.
(2) If controls set forth under more than one section of part 744 apply to a person, the license requirements for such a person will be determined based on the requirements of all applicable sections of part 744, and license applications will be reviewed under all applicable licensing policies.
(b) Steps. The following are steps you should follow in using the provisions of this part:
(1) Review end-use and end-user prohibitions. First, review each end-use and end-user prohibition described in this part to learn the scope of these prohibitions.
(2) Determine applicability. Second, determine whether any of the end-use and end-user prohibitions described in this part are applicable to your planned export, reexport, shipment, transmission, transfer (in-country) or other activity. See supplement no. 1 to part 732 for guidance. For exports, reexports, shipments, transmissions, or transfers (in-country) that are in transit at the time you are informed by BIS that a license is required in accordance with §§ 744.2(b), 744.3(b), 744.4(b), 744.6(c), 744.9(b), 744.11(c), 744.17(b), 744.21(b), or 744.22(b) of the EAR, you may not proceed any further with the transaction unless you first obtain a license from BIS (see part 748 of the EAR for instructions on how to apply for a license). The provisions of § 748.4(d)(2) of the EAR shall not apply to license applications submitted pursuant to a notification from BIS that occurs while an export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) is in transit.
[61 FR 12802, Mar. 25, 1996]

Editorial Note:

For Federal Register citations affecting § 744.1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.govinfo.gov.

§ 744.2 Restrictions on certain nuclear end-uses.

(a) General prohibition. In addition to the license requirements for items specified on the CCL, you may not export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) to any destination, other than countries in supplement no. 3 to this part, an item subject to the EAR without a license if, at the time of export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) you know 1 that the item will be used directly or indirectly in any one or more of the following activities described in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(3) of this section:
1 Part 772 of the EAR defines “knowledge” for all of the EAR except part 760, Restrictive Trade Practices and Boycotts. The definition, which includes variants such as “know” and “reason to know”, encompasses more than positive knowledge. Thus, the use of “know” in this section in place of the former wording “know or have reason to know” does not lessen or otherwise change the responsibilities of persons subject to the EAR.
(1) Nuclear explosive activities. Nuclear explosive activities, including research on or development, design, manufacture, construction, testing or maintenance of any nuclear explosive device, or components or subsystems of such a device. 2 3
2 Nuclear explosive devices and any article, material, equipment, or device specifically designed or specially modified for use in the design, development, or fabrication of nuclear weapons or nuclear explosive devices are subject to export licensing or other requirements of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, U.S. Department of State, or the licensing or other restrictions specified in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended. Similarly, items specifically designed or specifically modified for use in devising, carrying out, or evaluating nuclear weapons tests or nuclear explosions (except such items as are in normal commercial use for other purposes) are subject to the same requirements.
3 Also see §§ 744.5 and 748.4 of the EAR for special provisions relating to technical data for maritime nuclear propulsion plants and other commodities.
(2) Unsafeguarded nuclear activities. Activities including research on, or development, design, manufacture, construction, operation, or maintenance of any nuclear reactor, critical facility, facility for the fabrication of nuclear fuel, facility for the conversion of nuclear material from one chemical form to another, or separate storage installation, where there is no obligation to accept International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards at the relevant facility or installation when it contains any source or special fissionable material (regardless of whether or not it contains such material at the time of export), or where any such obligation is not met.
(3) Safeguarded and unsafeguarded nuclear activities. Safeguarded and unsafeguarded nuclear fuel cycle activities, including research on or development, design, manufacture, construction, operation or maintenance of any of the following facilities, or components for such facilities: 4
4 Such activities may also require a specific authorization from the Secretary of Energy pursuant to § 57.b.(2) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, as implemented by the Department of Energy's regulations published in 10 CFR 810.
(i) Facilities for the chemical processing of irradiated special nuclear or source material;
(ii) Facilities for the production of heavy water;
(iii) Facilities for the separation of isotopes of source and special nuclear material; or
(iv) Facilities for the fabrication of nuclear reactor fuel containing plutonium.
(b) Additional prohibition on persons informed by BIS. BIS may inform persons, either individually by specific notice or through amendment to the EAR, that a license is required for a specific export, reexport, or transfer (in-country), or for the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of specified items to a certain end-user, because there is an unacceptable risk of use in, or diversion to, the activities specified in paragraph (a) of this section. Specific notice is to be given only by, or at the direction of, the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. When such notice is provided orally, it will be followed by a written notice within two working days signed by the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. However, the absence of any such notification does not excuse persons from compliance with the license requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Exceptions. Despite the prohibitions described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, you may export technology subject to the EAR under the operation technology and software or sales technology and software provisions of License Exception TSU (see § 740.13(a) and (b)), but only to and for use in countries listed in supplement no. 3 to part 744 of the EAR (Countries Not Subject to Certain Nuclear End-Use Restrictions in § 744.2(a)). Notwithstanding the provisions of part 740 of the EAR, the provisions of § 740.13(a) and (b) will only overcome General Prohibition Five for countries listed in supplement no. 3 to part 744 of the EAR.
(d) License review standards. The following factors are among those used by the United States to determine whether to grant or deny license applications required under this section:
(1) Whether the commodities, software, or technology to be transferred are appropriate for the stated end-use and whether that stated end-use is appropriate for the end-user;
(2) The significance for nuclear purposes of the particular commodity, software, or technology;
(3) Whether the commodities, software, or technology to be exported are to be used in research on or for the development, design, manufacture, construction, operation, or maintenance of any reprocessing or enrichment facility;
(4) The types of assurances or guarantees given against use for nuclear explosive purposes or proliferation in the particular case;
(5) Whether the end-user has been engaged in clandestine or illegal procurement activities;
(6) Whether an application for a license to export to the end-user has previously been denied, or whether the end-use has previously diverted items received under a license, License Exception, or NLR to unauthorized activities;
(7) Whether the export would present an unacceptable risk of diversion to a nuclear explosive activity or unsafeguarded nuclear fuel-cycle activity described in § 744.2(a) of the EAR;
(8) The nonproliferation credentials of the importing country, based on consideration of the following factors:
(i) Whether the importing country is a party to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) or to the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America (Treaty of Tlatelolco) (see supplement no. 2 to part 742 of the EAR), or to a similar international legally-binding nuclear nonproliferation agreement;
(ii) Whether the importing country has all of its nuclear activities, facilities or installations that are operational, being designed, or under construction, under International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards or equivalent full scope safeguards;
(iii) Whether there is an agreement for cooperation in the civil uses of atomic energy between the U.S. and the importing country;
(iv) Whether the actions, statements, and policies of the government of the importing country are in support of nuclear nonproliferation and whether that government is in compliance with its international obligations in the field of nonproliferation;
(v) The degree to which the government of the importing country cooperates in nonproliferation policy generally (e.g., willingness to consult on international nonproliferation issues);
(vi) Intelligence data on the importing country's nuclear intentions and activities; and
(9) Whether the recipient state has sufficient national export controls (as described in paragraph 3 of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1540 (2004)) to prevent an unacceptable risk of retransfer or diversion to a nuclear explosive activity or unsafeguarded nuclear fuel-cycle activity described in § 744.2(a) of the EAR.
[61 FR 12802, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 64284, Dec. 4, 1996; 62 FR 25459, May 9, 1997; 67 FR 55598, Aug. 29, 2002; 73 FR 68326, Nov. 18, 2008; 79 FR 46324, Aug. 7, 2014]

§ 744.3 Restrictions on certain rocket systems (including ballistic missiles, space launch vehicles and sounding rockets) and unmanned aerial vehicles (including cruise missiles, target drones and reconnaissance drones) end-uses.

(a) General prohibition. In addition to the license requirements for items specified on the CCL, you may not export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) an item subject to the EAR without a license if, at the time of export, reexport or transfer (in-country) you know that the item:
(1) Will be used in the design, “development,” “production,” operation, installation (including on-site installation), maintenance (checking), repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of rocket systems or unmanned aerial vehicles capable of a range of at least 300 kilometers in or by a country listed in Country Group D:4 of supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR.
(2) Will be used anywhere in the world except by governmental programs for nuclear weapons delivery of NPT Nuclear Weapons States that are also members of NATO, in the design, “development,” “production,” operation, installation (including on-site installation), maintenance (checking), repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of rocket systems or unmanned aerial vehicles, regardless of range capabilities, for the delivery of chemical, biological, or nuclear weapons; or
(3) Will be used in the design, “development,” “production,” operation, installation (including on-site installation), maintenance (checking), repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of any rocket systems or unmanned aerial vehicles in or by a country listed in Country Group D:4, but you are unable to determine:
(i) The characteristics (i.e., range capabilities) of the rocket systems or unmanned aerial vehicles, or
(ii) Whether the rocket systems or unmanned aerial vehicles, regardless of range capabilities, will be used in a manner prohibited under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
Note to paragraph (a) of this section: For the purposes of this section, “Rocket Systems” include, but are not limited to, ballistic missiles, space launch vehicles, and sounding rockets. Also, for the purposes of this section, “unmanned aerial vehicles” include, but are not limited to, cruise missiles, target drones and reconnaissance drones.
(b) Additional prohibition on persons informed by BIS. BIS may inform persons, either individually by specific notice or through amendment to the EAR, that a license is required for a specific export, reexport or transfer (in-country) or for the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of specified items to a certain end-user, because there is an unacceptable risk of use in, or diversion to, the activities specified in paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section. Specific notice is to be given only by, or at the direction of, the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. When such notice is provided orally, it will be followed by a written notice within two working days signed by the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. However, the absence of any such notification does not excuse persons from compliance with the license requirements of paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section.
(c) Exceptions. No License Exceptions apply to the prohibitions described in paragraph (a) and (b) of this section.
(d) License review standards. (1) Applications to export, reexport or transfer (in-country) the items subject to this section will be considered on a case-by-case basis to determine whether the export, reexport or transfer (in-country) would make a material contribution to the proliferation of certain rocket systems, or unmanned aerial vehicles. When an export, reexport or transfer (in-country) is deemed to make a material contribution, the license will be denied.
(2) The following factors are among those that will be considered to determine what action should be taken on an application required by this section:
(i) The specific nature of the end use;
(ii) The significance of the export, reexport or transfer in terms of its contribution to the design, “development,” “production,” operation, installation (including on-site installation), maintenance (checking), repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of certain rocket systems or unmanned aerial vehicles;
(iii) The capabilities and objectives of the rocket systems or unmanned aerial vehicles of the recipient country;
(iv) The nonproliferation credentials of the importing country;
(v) The types of assurances or guarantees against design, “development,” “production,” operation, installation (including on-site installation), maintenance (checking), repair, overhaul, or refurbishing for certain rocket system or unmanned aerial vehicle delivery purposes that are given in a particular case; and
(vi) The existence of a pre-existing contract.
[61 FR 12802, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 25459, May 9, 1997; 69 FR 64659, Nov. 8, 2004; 70 FR 11861, Mar. 10, 2005; 73 FR 68326, Nov. 18, 2008; 82 FR 31446, July 7, 2017; 86 FR 4871, Jan. 15, 2021]

§ 744.4 Restrictions on certain chemical and biological weapons end-uses.

(a) General prohibition. In addition to the license requirements for items specified on the CCL, you may not export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) an item subject to the EAR without a license if, at the time of export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) you know that the item will be used in the design, “development,” “production,” stockpiling, operation, installation (including on-site installation), maintenance (checking), repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of chemical or biological weapons in or by any country or destination, worldwide; or in the design, “development,” “production,” operation, installation (including on-site installation), maintenance (checking), repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of a whole plant to make chemical weapons precursors specified in ECCN 1C350 in or by countries other than those listed in Country Group A:3 (Australia Group) (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR).
(b) Additional prohibition on persons informed by BIS. BIS may inform persons, either individually by specific notice or through amendment to the EAR, that a license is required for a specific export, reexport, or transfer (in-country), or for the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of specified items to a certain end-user, because there is an unacceptable risk of use in or diversion to the activities specified in paragraph (a) of this section, anywhere in the world. Specific notice is to be given only by, or at the direction of, the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. When such notice is provided orally, it will be followed by a written notice within two working days signed by the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. However, the absence of any such notification does not excuse persons from compliance with the license requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Exceptions. No License Exceptions apply to the prohibitions described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(d) License review standards. (1) Applications to export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) items subject to this section will be considered on a case-by-case basis to determine whether the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) would make a material contribution to the design, “development,” “production,” stockpiling, operation, installation (including on-site installation), maintenance (checking), repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of chemical or biological weapons. When an export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) is deemed to make such a contribution, the license will be denied.
(2) The following factors are among those that will be considered to determine what action should be taken on an application required under this section:
(i) The specific nature of the end-use;
(ii) The significance of the export, reexport, or transfer in terms of its contribution to the design, “development,” “production,” stockpiling, operation, installation (including on-site installation), maintenance (checking), repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of chemical or biological weapons;
(iii) The nonproliferation credentials of the importing country or the country in which the transfer would take place;
(iv) The types of assurances or guarantees against the design, “development,” “production,” stockpiling, operation, installation (including on-site installation), maintenance (checking), repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of chemical or biological weapons; and
(v) The existence of a pre-existing contract. See supplement no. 1 to part 742 of the EAR for relevant contract sanctity dates.
[61 FR 12802, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 25459, May 9, 1997; 70 FR 16111, Mar. 30, 2005; 70 FR 19691, Apr. 14, 2005; 73 FR 68326, Nov. 18, 2008; 86 FR 4871, Jan. 15, 2021]

§ 744.5 Restrictions on certain maritime nuclear propulsion end-uses.

(a) General prohibition. In addition to the license requirements for items specified on the CCL, you may not export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) certain technology subject to the EAR without a license if at the time of the export, reexport or transfer (in-country) you know the item is for use in connection with a foreign maritime nuclear propulsion project. This prohibition applies to any technology relating to maritime nuclear propulsion plants, their land prototypes, and special facilities for their construction, support, or maintenance, including any machinery, devices, components, or equipment specifically developed or designed for use in such plants or facilities.
(b) Exceptions. The exceptions provided in part 740 of the EAR do not apply to the prohibitions described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) License review standards. It is the policy of the United States Government not to participate in and not to authorize United States firms or individuals to participate in foreign naval nuclear propulsion plant projects, except under an Agreement for Cooperation on naval nuclear propulsion executed in accordance with § 123(d) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954. However, it is the policy of the United States Government to encourage United States firms and individuals to participate in maritime (civil) nuclear propulsion plant projects in friendly foreign countries provided that United States naval nuclear propulsion information is not disclosed.
[61 FR 12802, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 25459, May 9, 1997; 73 FR 68326, Nov. 18, 2008]

§ 744.6 Restrictions on specific activities of “U.S. persons.”

(a) Scope. The general prohibitions in this section apply only to the extent that the underlying activities are not subject to a license requirement or general prohibition administered by another federal department or agency, see, for example, Assistance to Foreign Atomic Energy Activities regulations (10 CFR part 810), administered by the Department of Energy; International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) (22 CFR parts 120 through 130), administered by the Department of State; and certain sanctions regulations (to include, but not limited to, 31 CFR parts 500 through 599), administered by the Department of the Treasury. Accordingly, “U.S. persons” are required to seek a license from BIS only for the activities described in this section that are not subject to a license requirement or general prohibition administered by the Department of Energy, Department of State, Department of the Treasury, or other federal department or agency. The issuance of a license by BIS, or any other federal department or agency, does not authorize “U.S. persons” to engage in any activity that is otherwise prohibited by law, including criminal statutes.
(b) General prohibitions. No “U.S. person” may, without a license from BIS, 'support':
(1) The design, “development,” “production,” operation, installation (including on-site installation), maintenance (checking), repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of nuclear explosive devices in or by any country not listed in supplement no. 3 to this part;
(2) The design, “development,” “production,” operation, installation (including on-site installation), maintenance (checking), repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of “missiles” in or by a country listed in Country Groups D:4 or E:2;
(3) The design, “development,” “production,” operation, installation (including on-site installation), maintenance (checking), repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of chemical or biological weapons in or by any country or destination worldwide;
(4) The design, “development,” “production,” operation, installation (including on-site installation), maintenance (checking), repair, overhaul, refurbishing, shipment, or transfer (in-country) of a whole plant to make chemical weapons precursors identified in ECCN 1C350, in or by countries other than those listed in Country Group A:3 (Australia Group); or
(5) A 'military-intelligence end use' or a 'military-intelligence end user,' as defined in § 744.22(f), in Belarus, Burma, Cambodia, the People's Republic of China, Russia, or Venezuela; or a country listed in Country Groups E:1 or E:2 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR).
(6) 'Support' means:
(i) Shipping or transmitting from one foreign country to another foreign country any item not subject to the EAR you know will be used in or by any of the end uses or end users described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section, including the sending or taking of such item to or from foreign countries in any manner;
(ii) Transferring (in-country) any item not subject to the EAR you know will be used in or by any of the end uses or end users described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section;
(iii) Facilitating such shipment, transmission, or transfer (in-country); or
(iv) Performing any contract, service, or employment you know may assist or benefit any of the end uses or end users described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section, including, but not limited to: Ordering, buying, removing, concealing, storing, using, selling, loaning, disposing, servicing, financing, transporting, freight forwarding, or conducting negotiations in furtherance of.
(c) Additional prohibitions on “U.S. persons” informed by BIS. (1) BIS may inform “U.S. persons,” either individually by specific notice, through amendment to the EAR published in the Federal Register, or through a separate notice published in the Federal Register, that a license is required because an activity could involve the types of 'support' (as defined in paragraph (b)(6) of this section) to the end uses or end users described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section. Specific notice is to be given only by, or at the direction of, the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. When such notice is provided orally, it will be followed by a written notice within two working days signed by the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. However, the absence of any such notification does not excuse the “U.S. person” from compliance with the license requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) Consistent with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, BIS is hereby informing “U.S. persons” that a license is required for the following activities, which could involve 'support' for the weapons of mass destruction-related end uses set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. Specifically, if you know your export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) meets any of the specified activities described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, then a license is required for shipping, transmitting, or transferring (in-country); facilitating the shipment, transmission, or transfer (in-country); or servicing (including installation) activities associated with any item, end use, or end user described in any of the following paragraphs:
(i) “Development” or “production” of “advanced-node ICs.” To or within Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5, any item not subject to the EAR that you know will be used in the “development” or “production” of integrated circuits at a “facility” of an entity headquartered in, or whose ultimate parent company is headquartered in, either Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5 where “production” of “advanced-node integrated circuits” occurs;
(ii) Category 3 items for “development” or “production” of “advanced-node ICs.” To or within Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5, any item not subject to the EAR and meeting the parameters of any ECCN in Product Groups B, C, D, or E in Category 3 of the CCL that you know will be used in the “development” or “production” of integrated circuits at a “facility” of an entity headquartered in, or whose ultimate parent company is headquartered in, either Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5 where “production” of integrated circuits occurs, but you do not know whether “production” of “advanced-node integrated circuits” occurs at such “facility”;
(iii) Semiconductor manufacturing equipment. To or within either Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5, any item not subject to the EAR and meeting the parameters of ECCNs 3B001.a.4, c, d, f.1, f.5, f.6, k to n, p.2, p.4, r, 3B002.c, 3D992, or 3E992 regardless of end use or end user.
(3) Scope of activities of “U.S. persons” that require a license under paragraph (c)(2) of this section—(i) Controlled activities. The U.S. persons controls in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section apply to persons who:
(A) Authorize the shipment, transmittal, or transfer (in-country) of items not subject to the EAR and described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section;
(B) Conduct the delivery, by shipment, transmittal, or transfer (in-country), of items not subject to the EAR described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section; or
(C) Service, including maintaining, repairing, overhauling, or refurbishing items not subject to the EAR described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(ii) Due diligence. Appropriate due diligence includes but is not limited to review of publicly available information, capability of items to be provided, proprietary market data, and end-use statements. “U.S. persons” should conduct due diligence to assess whether the item is for the “development” or “production” of “advanced-node integrated circuits” at a “facility” of an entity headquartered in, or whose ultimate parent company is headquartered in, either Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5, consistent with paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section. As set forth in paragraph (c)(2)(ii), for items specified in Category 3B, 3C, 3D, or 3E ECCNs, license requirements may apply even when the “U.S. person” does not know whether the activity is for the “development” or “production” of “advanced-node integrated circuits.” In addition, some of the exclusions may require due diligence, such as those in paragraphs (d)(3) and (5) of this section. “U.S. persons” should follow the “Know Your Customer” guidance in supplement no. 3 to part 732 of the EAR. “U.S. persons” can also submit Advisory Opinion requests to BIS pursuant to § 748.3(c) of the EAR for guidance on specific fabrication facilities. To submit an Advisory Opinion request, email RPD2@bis.doc.gov.
(d) Exceptions and exclusions. No license exceptions apply to the prohibitions described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) or paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(1) Exclusion of certain administrative and clerical activities and information otherwise excluded—(i) Exclusion of certain administrative and clerical activities. Given the policy objective of these controls, the “U.S. persons” criteria in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section do not extend to “U.S. persons” conducting administrative or clerical activities (e.g., arranging for shipment or preparing financial documents) or otherwise implementing a decision to approve a restricted shipment, transmittal, or in-country transfer, or to activities of “U.S. persons” that are not directly related to the provision or servicing of specific items to the “development” or “production” of “advanced-node integrated circuits.”
(ii) Exclusion of information otherwise excluded under the EAR under part 734. The exclusion of certain activities specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section only applies to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, and does not, for example, limit the scope of paragraph (b) of this section or apply to other uses of the term facilitate or facilitation found elsewhere in the EAR. The scope of paragraph (c)(2) of this section does not include information or software that would otherwise be excluded from the EAR based on the exclusion criteria under part 734, e.g., under § 734.7 (entitled “Published”) and § 734.8 “Technology” or “software” that arises during, or results from, fundamental research.
(iii) Exclusion of law enforcement and intelligence operations of the U.S. Government. Given the policy objective of these controls, the “U.S. persons” criteria in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section do not extend to “U.S. persons” conducting law enforcement and intelligence operations of the U.S. Government.
(2) Exclusion to paragraphs (b)(5) and (c)(2)(iii) of this section. Notwithstanding the prohibitions in paragraphs (b)(5) and (c)(2)(iii), “U.S. persons” who are employees of a department or agency of the U.S. Government may 'support' a 'military-intelligence end use' or a 'military-intelligence end user,' as described in paragraphs (b)(5) and (c)(2)(iii), if the 'support' is provided in the performance of official duties in furtherance of a U.S. Government program that is authorized by law and subject to control by the President by other means. This paragraph (d)(2) does not authorize a department or agency of the U.S. Government to provide 'support' that is otherwise prohibited by other administrative provisions or by statute. 'Contractor support personnel' of a department or agency of the U.S. Government are eligible for this authorization when in the performance of their duties pursuant to the applicable contract or other official duties. 'Contractor support personnel' for the purposes of this paragraph (d)(2) has the same meaning given to that term in § 740.11(b)(2)(ii) of the EAR. This authorization is not available when a department or agency of the U.S. Government acts as an agent on behalf of a non-U.S. Government person.
(3) Exclusion to paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The term “production” in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) does not apply to back-end steps such as assembly, test, or packaging that do not alter the integrated circuit technology level. If there is a question at the time of export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) about whether a manufacturing stage is back-end or whether a manufacturing stage is back-end or a back-end activity alters the technology level, you may submit an advisory opinion request to BIS pursuant to § 748.3(c) of the EAR for clarification.
(4) Exclusion to paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section. (i) Paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) do not apply to a natural “U.S. person,” as defined in paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of the definition in § 772.1 of the EAR, employed or working on behalf of a company headquartered in the United States or a destination specified in Country Group A:5 or A:6 and not majority-owned by an entity that is headquartered in either Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5.
(ii) Any activities a natural “U.S. person,” as defined in paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of that term's definition in § 772.1 of the EAR, undertakes when employed or acting on behalf of a company not headquartered in the United States or a destination specified in Country Group A:5 or A:6 must comply with the requirements in this paragraph (d)(4) as applicable. For example, if a natural “U.S. person” is a freelancer who works or acts on behalf of a company headquartered in the United States or a destination specified in Country Group A:5 or A:6, those activities would not be prohibited under paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section. However, if that same natural “U.S. person” was also working or acting on behalf of a company headquartered somewhere other than the United States or a destination specified in Country Group A:5 or A:6, the activities performed on behalf of such a company would not be excluded under paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) and a license would be required.
(5) Exclusion to paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section. Paragraph (c)(2)(iii) does not apply to servicing (including installation) activities unless at a “facility” where “production” of “advanced-node integrated circuits” occurs, which would require a license under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.
(e) License review standards. (1) Applications for a “U.S. person” to 'support' (as defined in paragraph (b)(6) of this section) any of the end uses or end users described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section will be denied if such support would make a material contribution to the end uses and end users described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.
(2) Applications for a “U.S. person” to 'support' (as defined in paragraph (b)(6) of this section) a 'military-intelligence end use' or a 'military-intelligence end user' as described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section will be reviewed with a presumption of denial.
(3) Applications for licenses submitted pursuant to the notice of a license requirement set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section will be reviewed in accordance with the policies described in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section. License review will take into account factors including technology level, customers, compliance plans, and contract sanctity.
(i) Presumption of denial. Applications will be reviewed with a presumption of denial for Macau and destinations specified in Country Group D:5 and entities headquartered or whose ultimate parent is headquartered in Macau or destinations specified in Country Group D:5, unless paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section applies.
(ii) Case-by-case. Applications will be reviewed with a case-by-case policy for license applications that meet either of the following conditions:
(A) For items specified in ECCN 3A090, 4A090, 3A001.z, 4A003.z, 4A004.z, 4A005.z, 5A002.z, 5A004.z, 5A992.z, 5D002.z, or 5D992.z, except for items designed or marketed for use in a datacenter and meeting the parameters of 3A090.a;
(B) For activities involving an item subject to the license requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section where there is an item not subject to the license requirements of paragraph (c)(2) that performs the same function as an item meeting the license requirements of paragraph (c)(2); or
(C) For all other applications not specified in paragraph (e)(3)(i) or (e)(3)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section.
[86 FR 4871, Jan. 15, 2021, as amended at 86 FR 18436, Apr. 9, 2021; 86 FR 70018, Dec. 9, 2021; 87 FR 13059, Mar. 8, 2022; 87 FR 62199, Oct. 13, 2022; 88 FR 2825, Jan. 18, 2023; 88 FR 73448, 73494, Oct. 25, 2023; 89 FR 23885, Apr. 4, 2024; 89 FR 96817, Dec. 5, 2024; 90 FR 5311, Jan. 16, 2025]

§ 744.7 Restrictions on certain exports to and for the use of certain foreign vessels or aircraft.

(a) General end-use prohibition. In addition to the license requirements for items specified on the CCL, you may not export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) an item subject to the EAR to, or for the use of, a foreign vessel or aircraft, whether an operating vessel or aircraft or one under construction, located in any port including a Canadian port, unless a License Exception or NLR permits the shipment to be made:
(1) To the country in which the vessel or aircraft is located, and
(2) To the country in which the vessel or aircraft is registered, or will be registered in the case of a vessel or aircraft under construction, and
(3) To the country, including a national thereof, which is currently controlling, leasing, or chartering the vessel or aircraft.
Note 1 to paragraph (a): A shipment or transmission of items to a launch platform or facility in international waters is an “export” or “reexport” to the country or countries the platform or facility is owned by, controlled by, or being operated on behalf of.
(b) Exception for U.S. and Canadian carriers—(1) Exception to general end-use prohibition. Notwithstanding the general end-use prohibition in paragraph (a) of this section, export, reexport, and transfer (in-country) may be made of the commodities described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, for use by or on a specific vessel or plane of U.S. or Canadian registry located at any seaport or airport outside the United States or Canada except a port in Country Group D:1 (excluding the PRC), (see supplement no. 1 to part 740) provided that such commodities are all of the following:
(i) Ordered by the person in command or the owner or agent of the vessel or plane to which they are consigned;
(ii) Intended to be used or consumed on board such vessel or plane and necessary for its proper operation;
(iii) In usual and reasonable kinds and quantities during times of extreme need, except that usual and reasonable quantities of ship's bunkers or aviation fuel are considered to be only that quantity necessary for a single onward voyage or flight; and
(iv) Shipped as cargo for which Electronic Export Information (EEI) is filed to the Automated Export System (AES) in accordance with the requirements of the Foreign Trade Regulations (FTR) (15 CFR part 30), except EEI is not required to be filed when any of the commodities, other than fuel, is exported by U.S. airlines to their own aircraft abroad for their own use, see 15 CFR 30.37(o) of the FTR.
(2) Exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) to U.S. or Canadian Airline's Installation or Agent. Exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of the commodities described in paragraph (e) of this section, except fuel, may be made to a U.S. or Canadian airline's installation or agent in any foreign destination except Country Group D:1 (excluding the PRC), (see supplement no. 1 to part 740) provided such commodities are all of the following:
(i) Ordered by a U.S. or Canadian airline and consigned to its own installation or agent abroad;
(ii) Intended for maintenance, repair, or operation of aircraft registered in either the United States or Canada, and necessary for the aircraft's proper operation, except where such aircraft is located in, or owned, operated or controlled by, or leased or chartered to, Country Group D:1 (excluding the PRC) (see supplement no. 1 to part 740) or a national of such country;
(iii) In usual and reasonable kinds and quantities; and
(iv) Shipped as cargo for which Electronic Export Information (EEI) is filed to the Automated Export System (AES) in accordance with the requirements of the Foreign Trade Regulations (FTR) (15 CFR part 30), except EEI is not required to be filed when any of these commodities is exported by U.S. airlines to their own installations and agents abroad for use in their aircraft operations, see 15 CFR 30.37(o) of the FTR.
(3) Applicable commodities. This § 744.7 applies to the commodities listed subject to the provisions in paragraph (b) of this section:
(i) Fuel, including crude oil, petroleum products other than crude oil that are of non-Naval Petroleum Reserves origin or derivation (see § 754.3 of the EAR), and blends of crude oil with such petroleum products;
(ii) Deck, engine, and steward department stores, provisions, and supplies for both port and voyage requirements, provided that any petroleum products other than crude oil which are listed in supplement no. 1 to part 754 of the EAR are of non-Naval Petroleum Reserves origin or derivation (see § 754.3 of the EAR);
(iii) Medical and surgical supplies;
(iv) Food stores;
(v) Slop chest articles;
(vi) Saloon stores or supplies; and
(vii) Equipment and spare parts.
[61 FR 12802, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 38160, June 19, 2000; 68 FR 50472, Aug. 21, 2003; 70 FR 67348, Nov. 7, 2005; 79 FR 4616, Jan. 29, 2014; 81 FR 29486, May 12, 2016; 88 FR 12181, Feb. 27, 2023; 89 FR 20115, Mar. 21, 2024; 89 FR 84777, Oct. 23, 2024]

§ 744.8 Restrictions on exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) when certain persons designated on the list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List) are a party to the transaction.

(a) Scope. (1) In addition to any other EAR license requirements that may be applicable, this section imposes EAR license requirements, license review policies, and restrictions on the use of license exceptions for exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) when a person who is designated on the Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control's (OFAC) List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List) with any of the following identifiers is a party to the transaction, as described in § 748.5(c) through (f):
(i) Related to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
(A) [BELARUS-EO14038];
(B) [BELARUS];
(C) [RUSSIA-EO14024];
(D) [UKRAINE-EO13660];
(E) [UKRAINE-EO13661];
(F) [UKRAINE-EO13662]; or
(G) [UKRAINE-EO13685].
(ii) Terrorism-related.
(A) [FTO]; or
(B) [SDGT].
(iii) WMD-related.
(A) [NPWMD].
(B) [Reserved]
(iv) Related to narcotics trafficking or other criminal networks.
(A) [ILLICIT DRUGS-EO14059];
(B) [SDNT];
(C) [SDNTK]; or
(D) [TCO].
Note 1 to paragraph (a)(1): The names of such designations are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List, as set forth in appendix A to 31 CFR chapter V and on OFAC's website at https://www.treas.gov/sdn. See Program Tag Definitions for OFAC Sanctions Lists for additional information: https://ofac.treasury.gov/specially-designated-nationals-list-sdn-list/program-tag-definitions-for-ofac-sanctions-lists.
(2) These EAR controls supplement and strengthen the sanctions that are imposed by OFAC on these SDNs to better ensure that U.S. national security and foreign policy interests are protected. These EAR controls also apply to any foreign affiliate of a listed entity that is owned, directly or indirectly, individually or in aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons blocked pursuant to the programs listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. An entity owned 50 percent or more, directly or indirectly, by multiple entities subject to EAR license requirements pursuant to some combination of the Entity List, MEU List, or SDN List designated under programs listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, is subject to the most restrictive license requirements, license exception eligibility, and license review policy applicable to one or more of its owners under the EAR. Specifically, this section imposes controls on exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) of items subject to the EAR where the OFAC regulations are not applicable, such as in certain situations involving deemed exports and deemed reexports, and reexports and transfers (in-country) not involving the U.S. financial system or otherwise involving U.S. persons. To avoid imposing a duplicative license requirement, the transactions specified in this section do not require separate EAR authorization if the transactions are authorized under an OFAC specific or general license or are exempted under OFAC's regulations.
Note 2 to paragraph (a): The Entity List in supplement no. 4 to part 744 includes certain persons that have also been designated with certain identifiers on the SDN List. See § 744.11 and supplement no. 4 to part 744 for requirements, including license review policies, for these entities, which take precedence over the requirements in this § 744.8. BIS requires an EAR authorization as specified in the license requirement column on the Entity List for export, reexport, and transfer (in-country) transactions involving items subject to the EAR in which these persons are parties to the transaction regardless of whether such transaction is authorized under an OFAC specific or general license or exempted under OFAC's regulations.
(b) License requirements. Unless the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) is authorized under an OFAC specific or general license or exempted under OFAC's regulations, a license is required under the EAR for the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of any item “subject to the EAR” when a person who is designated on OFAC's SDN List with, or blocked pursuant to, any of the identifiers set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is a party to the transaction as described in § 748.5(c) through (f). A Department of Commerce license is not required for transactions described in this paragraph (b) that would have otherwise met all of the terms and conditions of an OFAC general license if the transactions had been subject to OFAC jurisdiction.
(c) License exceptions. No license exceptions may overcome the license requirements in this section, except for entities that are also listed on the Entity List in supplement no. 4 to part 744 that have certain license exception eligibility, which is available to overcome the license requirements of this section and supplement no. 4 to part 744 for that specific entity.
(d) License review policy. Applications for licenses required by this section will be subject to a presumption of denial license review policy, except when note 1 to paragraph (a)(1) of this section is applicable and the license review policy specified on the Entity List in supplement no. 4 to part 744 is different, in which case the license review policy under the applicable Entity List entry for that person would govern. You should consult OFAC regarding transactions subject to licensing requirements under regulations maintained by OFAC.
(e) Violations. (1) Any export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) by a U.S. person of any item subject to both the EAR and regulations maintained by OFAC in situations in which a person identified in paragraph (a)(1) is a party to the transaction as described in § 748.5(c) through (f) that is not authorized by OFAC constitutes a violation of the EAR. This paragraph does not apply to entities identified under both this section and the Entity List in supplement no. 4 to part 744. EAR violations involving entities identified under both this section and the Entity List will be addressed pursuant to §§ 744.11 and 744.16.
(2) Any export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of any item subject to the EAR in which a person identified in paragraph (a)(1) is a party to the transaction as described in § 748.5(c) through (f) and such transaction is not subject to regulations maintained by OFAC and not authorized by BIS constitutes a violation of the EAR.
Note 3 to § 744.8: This section does not implement, construe, or limit the scope of any criminal statute, including but not limited to 18 U.S.C. 2339B(a)(1) and 2339A, and does not excuse any person from complying with any criminal statute, including but not limited to 18 U.S.C. 2339B(a)(1) and 18 U.S.C. 2339A.
[89 FR 20115, Mar. 21, 2024, as amended at 90 FR 47212, Sept. 30, 2025]

Effective Date Note:

At 90 FR 50857, Nov. 12, 2025, in § 744.8, the second and third sentences of paragraph (a)(2) and the first sentence of paragraph (b) were stayed, effective until Nov. 9, 2026.

§ 744.9 Restrictions on exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of certain cameras, systems, or related components.

(a) General prohibitions. (1) In addition to the applicable license requirements for nuclear nonproliferation, national security, regional stability, anti-terrorism, and United Nations embargo reasons in §§ 742.3, 742.4, 742.6, 742.8, 746.1(b), and 746.3 of the EAR, a license is required pursuant to this section for specific exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) if at the time of export, reexport, or transfer, the exporter, reexporter, or transferor knows or is informed that:
(i) Commodities controlled by ECCN 6A003.a.3, 6A003.a.4, or 6A003.a.6 will be or are intended to be used by a 'military end-user,' as defined in paragraph (d) of this section in all destinations except Australia, Canada, or the United Kingdom.
(ii) Commodities described in ECCNs 0A504 (incorporating commodities controlled by ECCNs 6A002 or 6A003, or commodities controlled by 6A993.a that meet the criterion of Note 3.a to 6A003.b.4), 6A002, 6A003 (other than 6A003.a.3, 6A003.a.4, and 6A003.a.6), or 6A993.a (having a maximum frame rate equal to or less than 9 Hz and thus meeting the criteria of Note 3.a to 6A003.b.4), or 8A002.d will be or are intended to be used by a 'military end-user,' as defined in paragraph (d) of this section in all destinations except those specified in Country Group A:1.
(iii) Commodities described in ECCNs 0A504 (incorporating commodities controlled by ECCNs 6A002 or 6A003, or commodities controlled by 6A993.a that meet the criterion of Note 3.a to 6A003.b.4), 6A002, 6A003, or 6A993.a (having a maximum frame rate equal to or less than 9 Hz and thus meeting the criteria of Note 3.a to 6A003.b.4), or 8A002.d will be or are intended to be incorporated into a “military commodity” controlled by ECCN 0A919 in all destinations except Australia, Canada, or the United Kingdom.
(2) The license requirement described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not apply to exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) of items described in that paragraph when such items are being reexported or transferred as part of a military deployment by a unit of the government of a country in Country Group A:1 (see Supplement No. 1 to part 740).
(b) Additional prohibition on exporters, reexporters, or transferors informed by BIS. BIS may inform an exporter, reexporter, or transferor, either individually by specific notice or through amendment to the EAR, that a license is required for the export, reexport, or transfer of commodities described in ECCNs 0A504 (incorporating commodities controlled by ECCNs 6A002 or 6A003, or commodities controlled by 6A993.a that meet the criterion of Note 3.a to 6A003.b.4), 6A002, 6A003, or 6A993.a (having a maximum frame rate equal to or less than 9 Hz and thus meeting the criteria of Note 3.a to 6A003.b.4), or 8A002.d to specified end users, because BIS has determined that there is an unacceptable risk of diversion to the users or unauthorized incorporation into the “military commodities” described in paragraph (a) of this section. Specific notice is to be given only by, or at the direction of, the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. When such notice is provided orally, it will be followed by a written notice within two working days signed by the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration.
(c) License review standard. Applications for licenses required by this section will be reviewed by applying the policies that would be applied under the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (22 CFR Parts 120-130).
(d) Military end-user. In this section, the term “military end-user” means the national armed services (army, navy, marine, air force, or coast guard), as well as the national guard and national police, government intelligence or reconnaissance organizations, or any person or entity whose actions or functions are intended to support “military end-uses” as defined in § 744.17(d).
(e) Exception. Shipments subject to the prohibitions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section that are consigned to and for the official use of the U.S. Government authorized pursuant to § 740.11(b)(2)(ii) of the EAR may be made under License Exception GOV. No other license exceptions apply to the prohibitions described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
[74 FR 23948, May 22, 2009; 77 FR 39369, July 2, 2012, as amended at 81 FR 70333, Oct. 12, 2016; 83 FR 53751, Oct. 24, 2018; 85 FR 4177, Jan. 23, 2020; 89 FR 13592, Feb. 23, 2024; 89 FR 28601, Apr. 19, 2024]

§ 744.10 [Reserved]

§ 744.11 License requirements that apply to entities acting or at significant risk of acting contrary to the national security or foreign policy interests of the United States.

BIS may impose foreign policy export, re-export, and transfer (in-country) license requirements, limitations on availability of license exceptions, and set license application review policy based on the criteria in this section. Such requirements, limitations and policy are in addition to those set forth elsewhere in the EAR. License requirements, limitations on use of license exceptions, and license application review policies will be imposed under this section by adding an entity or an address that presents a high diversion risk (see § 744.16(f) of this part) to the Entity List (supplement no. 4 to this part) with a reference to this section and by stating on the Entity List the license requirements and license application review policies that apply to that entity or address, or by informing an exporter, re-exporter, or transferor pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section that a specific entity or address is subject to a license requirement, limitations on use of license exceptions and license application review policies as specified in a specific notice provided to an exporter, re-exporter, or transferor. BIS may remove an entity from the Entity List if it is no longer engaged in the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section and is unlikely to engage in such activities in the future, or if it is no longer at significant risk of acting contrary to the national security or foreign policy interests of the United States as described therein. BIS may remove an address that presents a high diversion risk from the Entity List if the address is determined to no longer be a high diversion risk, for example if measures are undertaken to educate companies operating at those addresses on export compliance, or to effectively screen clients for diversion risk. BIS may modify the license exception limitations and license application review policies that apply to a particular entity or address that presents a high diversion risk to implement the policies of this section. BIS will implement the provisions of this section in accordance with the decisions of the End-User Review Committee or, if appropriate in a particular case, in accordance with the decisions of the body to which the End-User Review Committee decision is escalated. The End-User Review Committee will follow the procedures set forth in supplement no. 5 to this part.
(a) License requirement, availability of license exceptions, and license application review policy. A license is required, to the extent specified on the Entity List, to export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) any item subject to the EAR when an entity that is listed on the Entity List, or any entity using an address identified on the Entity List as presenting a high risk of diversion to activities of concern, is a party to the transaction as described in § 748.5(c) through (f) of the EAR unless otherwise authorized or excluded in this section. License exceptions may not be used unless authorized in the Entity List entry for the entity that is party to the transaction or for an address that presents a high diversion risk that is used by a party to the transaction. Applications for licenses required by this section will be evaluated as stated in the relevant Entity List entry, in addition to any other applicable review policy stated elsewhere in the EAR.
(1) Entity List entries extend to other foreign affiliates of listed entities owned 50 percent or more by one or more listed entities or unlisted entities that are subject to ownership-related restrictions. The Entity List license requirements and other Entity List restrictions also apply to any foreign entity that is owned, directly or indirectly, individually or in aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more listed entities or unlisted entities that are subject to Entity List license requirements or other Entity List restrictions based upon their ownership. The Entity List license requirements and other Entity List restrictions do not apply to foreign affiliates that are owned, directly or indirectly, individually or in aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more entities that are operating at an address listed on the Entity List if the entities operating at that address are not specifically identified on the Entity List. An entity owned 50 percent or more, directly or indirectly, by multiple entities subject to EAR license requirements pursuant to some combination of the Entity List, MEU List, or SDN List designated under programs listed in § 744.8(a)(1), is subject to the most restrictive license requirements, license exception eligibility, and license review policy applicable to one or more of its owners under the EAR. If an exporter, reexporter, or transferor cannot determine the ownership percentage of a foreign entity that is an entity owned, directly or indirectly, by one or more listed entities, they must resolve the Red Flag or obtain a license from BIS prior to proceeding with the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country), unless a license exception is available (see Red Flag 29 in supplement no. 3 to part 732).
(2) Entity List foreign-“direct product” (FDP) license requirements, review policy, and license exceptions—(i) Footnote 1 entities. You may not, without a license or license exception, reexport, export from abroad, or transfer (in-country) to or within any destination or to any end user or party any foreign-produced item subject to the EAR pursuant to § 734.9(e)(1) of the EAR. All license exceptions described in part 740 of the EAR are available for foreign-produced items that are subject to this license requirement if all terms and conditions of the applicable license exception are met and the restrictions in § 740.2 of this EAR do not apply. The sophistication and capabilities of technology in items is a factor in license application review; license applications for foreign-produced items subject to a license requirement by this paragraph (a)(2) that are capable of supporting the “development” or “production” of telecom systems, equipment, and devices below the 5G level (e.g., 4G, 3G) will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
(ii) [Reserved]
(iii) Footnote 3 entities. License requirements for foreign-produced items involving entities marked with footnote 3 are described in § 746.8(a)(3). The license review policy is set forth in the entry in supplement no. 4 to this part for each entity with a footnote 3 designation.
(iv) Footnote 4 entities. You may not, without a license, reexport, export from abroad, or transfer (in-country) to or within any destination or to any end user or party any foreign-produced item subject to the EAR pursuant to § 734.9(e)(2) of the EAR. See § 744.23 for additional license requirements that may apply to these entities. The license review policy for foreign-produced items subject to this license requirement is set forth in the entry in supplement no. 4 to this part for each entity with a footnote 4 designation.
(v) Footnote 5 entities and end-user facilities where the “production” of logic or DRAM “advanced-node integrated circuits” occurs—(A) License requirement. You may not, without a license, reexport, export from abroad, or transfer (in-country) to or within any destination or to any end user or party any foreign-produced item subject to the EAR pursuant to §§ 734.4(a)(9) or 734.9(e)(3), for each of the following paragraphs (A)(1) through (A)(4):
(1) Exports from abroad or reexports from all countries. A license is required for commodities specified in ECCNs 3B001 (except 3B001.a.4, c, d, f.1, f.5, f.6, g, h, k to n, p.2, p.4, or r), 3B002 (except 3B002.c), 3B611, 3B903, 3B991 (except 3B991.b.2.a through 3B991.b.2.b), 3B992, 3B993, or 3B994 when exported from abroad or reexported by an entity headquartered in, or whose ultimate parent company is headquartered in, Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5.
(2) Exports from abroad or reexports from countries in Country Group A:5 that are not in supplement no. 4 to part 742. A license is required for the export from abroad or reexport from countries specified in Country Group A:5 that are not in supplement no. 4 to part 742 of commodities specified in ECCN 3B993 if the commodity is not subject to equivalent controls by the relevant country.
(3) Exports from abroad or reexports from all countries not listed in Country Group A:5. Exports from abroad or reexports from all countries not listed in Country Group A:5, as follows:
(i) A license is required for commodities specified in ECCNs 3B001 (except 3B001.a.4, c, d, f.1, f.5, g, h, k to n, p.2, p.4, r), 3B002 (except 3B002.c), 3B611, 3B903, 3B991 (except 3B991.b.2.a through 3B991.b.2.b), 3B992, 3B993, or 3B994 by an entity that is headquartered or whose ultimate parent company is headquartered in a country not specified in supplement no. 4 to part 742.
(ii) A license is required for commodities specified in ECCN 3B993 by an entity headquartered or whose ultimate parent company is headquartered in a country specified in supplement no. 4 to part 742 of this section.
(4) Transfers (in-country). The commodity is to be transferred within the country of the entity specified by § 734.9(e)(3)(ii):
(i) By an entity whose ultimate parent company is headquartered in a country not described in supplement no. 4 to part 742 and the entity is transferring a commodity specified in ECCNs 3B001 (except 3B001.a.4, c, d, f.1, f.5, g, h, k to n, p.2, p.4, or r), 3B002 (except 3B002.c), 3B611, 3B903, 3B991 (except 3B991.b.2.a through 3B991.b.2.b), 3B992, 3B993, or 3B994; or
(ii) By an entity whose ultimate parent company is headquartered in a country described in supplement no. 4 to part 742 destination and the entity is transferring a commodity specified in ECCN 3B993.
(B) License review policy. The license review policy is set forth in the entry of the Entity List in supplement no. 4 to this part for each entity with a Footnote 5 designation. Unless otherwise stated in the license review policy column of the specific entity, there is a case-by-case license review policy for items subject to the license requirements of this section where there is a foreign-made item that is not subject to the license requirements of this section and performs the same function as an item subject to the EAR license requirements of this section.
(b) Criteria for revising the Entity List. Entities for which there is reasonable cause to believe, based on specific and articulable facts, that the entity or party to the transaction that is operating at an address that presents a high diversion risk has been involved, is involved, or poses a significant risk of being or becoming involved in activities that are contrary to the national security or foreign policy interests of the United States and those acting on behalf of such entities or conducting operations at an address that presents a high diversion risk may be added to the Entity List pursuant to this section. An entity or address that presents a high diversion risk may pose a significant risk through certain circumstances that may be outside of its own control or in the case of addresses with high diversion risk, outside the control of certain parties to the transaction operating at such address that presents a high diversion risk. Such circumstances that may place an entity or address that presents a high diversion risk include situations involving a sustained lack of cooperation by a host government authority, for example, by preventing an end-use check from being conducted, that effectively prevents BIS from determining compliance with the EAR. This section may not be used to place any U.S. person, as defined in § 772.1 of the EAR, on the Entity List. Paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section provide an illustrative list of activities that could be or represent a significant risk of being contrary to the national security or foreign policy interests of the United States, including the foreign policy interest of the protection of human rights throughout the world.
(1) Supporting persons engaged in acts of terror.
(2) Actions that could enhance the military capability of, or the ability to support terrorism of governments that have been designated by the Secretary of State as having repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism.
(3) Transferring, developing, servicing, repairing or producing conventional weapons in a manner that is contrary to United States national security or foreign policy interests or enabling such transfer, service, repair, development, or production by supplying parts, components, technology, or financing for such activity.
(4) Prevention of the accomplishment of an end use check conducted by or on behalf of BIS or the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls of the Department of State by:
(i) The entity or persons that own or control an address that presents a high diversion risk precluding access to; refusing to provide information about; or providing false or misleading information about parties to the transaction or the item to be checked. The conduct in this example includes: expressly refusing to permit a check; providing false or misleading information; or engaging in dilatory or evasive conduct that effectively prevents the check from occurring or makes the check inaccurate or useless. A nexus between the conduct of the party or address that presents a high diversion risk to be listed and the failure to produce a complete, accurate and useful check is required, even though an express refusal by the party to be listed is not required; or
(ii) A sustained lack of cooperation by the host government to schedule and facilitate the completion of an end-use check of entities identified on the Unverified List pursuant to § 744.15, resulting in sufficient concern such that the End-User Review Committee believes that prior review of exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) involving the entity and the possible imposition of license conditions or license denial enhance BIS's ability to prevent violations of the EAR.
(5) Engaging in conduct that poses a risk of violating the EAR when such conduct raises sufficient concern that the End-User Review Committee believes that prior review of exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) involving the party and the possible imposition of license conditions or license denial enhances BIS's ability to prevent violations of the EAR.
(c) Additional prohibition on persons informed by BIS. BIS may inform persons, either individually by specific notice or through amendment to the EAR, that a license is required for:
(1) A specific export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) because there is an unacceptable risk that the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) is intended to circumvent the license requirement imposed on an entity or address that presents a high diversion risk listed in supplement no. 4 to this part; or
(2) The export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of specified items to a certain party because there is an unacceptable risk that the party is acting as an agent, front, or shell company for an entity listed in supplement no. 4 to this part, or is otherwise assisting that listed entity in circumventing the license requirement set forth in that entity's entry in supplement no. 4 to this part; or
(3) The export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of specified items to a certain party or address that presents a high diversion risk because there is reasonable cause to believe, based on specific and articulable facts, that the entity has been involved, is involved, or poses a significant risk of being or becoming involved in activities that are contrary to the national security or foreign policy interests of the United States, including the foreign policy interest of the protection of human rights throughout the world, and those acting on behalf of such entity or that an address that presents a high diversion risk of being used to divert items subject to the EAR to end-uses or end-users inconsistent with U.S. foreign policy or national security interests. Specific notice will be given only by, or at the direction of, the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Strategic Trade and Technology Security or the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Strategic Trade. When such notice is provided orally, it will be followed by written notice within two working days signed by the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Strategic Trade and Technology Security or the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary's or Deputy Assistant Secretary's designee. The specific notice will include the license requirement, limitations on use of license exceptions, and license application review policy with which that exporter, re-exporter, or transferor must comply pursuant to this paragraph (c)(3). The ERC may add such entities or addresses that present a high diversion risk to the Entity List in supplement no. 4 to this part.
[87 FR 61973, Oct. 13, 2022, as amended at 87 FR 62200, Oct. 13, 2022; 88 FR 18985, Mar. 30, 2023; 89 FR 33228, Apr. 29, 2024; 89 FR 51651, June 18, 2024; 89 FR 58273, July 18, 2024; 89 FR 60303, July 25, 2024; 89 FR 68543, Aug. 27, 2024; 89 FR 87282, Nov. 1, 2024; 89 FR 96817, Dec. 5, 2024; 90 FR 5312, Jan. 16, 2025; 90 FR 47212, Sept. 30, 2025]

Effective Date Note:

At 90 FR 50857, Nov. 12, 2025, in § 744.11, paragraph (a)(1) was stayed, effective until Nov. 9, 2026.

§§ 744.12-744.14 [Reserved]

§ 744.15 Restrictions on exports, reexports and transfers (in-country) to persons listed on the unverified list.

(a) General requirement. In addition to the requirements set forth elsewhere in the EAR, exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) subject to the EAR involving parties to the transaction who are listed on the Unverified List (UVL) must be made in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. The names and addresses of foreign persons subject to end-user controls based on the criteria described in paragraph (c) of this section are identified in the Unverified List found in supplement no. 6 to this part. Requirements found elsewhere in the EAR also apply, including but not limited to any license requirements, the record filing requirements pursuant to § 758.1(b)(8), and the restrictions on license exceptions described in § 740.2(a)(17) of the EAR.
(b) UVL statement. Before proceeding with any export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) subject to the EAR that is not subject to a license requirement, involving a person listed on the Unverified List as a party described in § 748.5 of the EAR, an exporter, reexporter, or transferor (in-country) must obtain a UVL statement from such person, according to the provisions set forth in this section. The statement must be retained in accordance with part 762 of the EAR.
(1) One UVL statement may be used for multiple exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of the same items between the same parties, so long as the party names, the description(s) of the items and the ECCNs are correct. If one UVL statement is used for multiple exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country), the exporter, reexporter, and transferor must maintain a log or other record that identifies each export, reexport, and transfer (in-country) made pursuant to this section and the specific UVL statement that is associated with each. The log or record must be retained in accordance with Part 762 of the EAR.
(2) The UVL statement must be in writing, signed and dated by an individual of sufficient authority to legally bind the UVL party, and state the following:
(i) Name of UVL party; complete physical address, to include shipping, corporate, and end user addresses, if different (simply listing a post office box is insufficient); telephone number; fax number; email address; Web site (if available); and name and title of individual signing the UVL statement.
(ii) Agrees not to use the item(s) for any use prohibited by the United States Export Administration Regulations (EAR), 15 CFR Parts 730-772, and agrees not to reexport or transfer (in-country) the item(s) to any destination, use or user prohibited by the EAR.
(iii) Declares that the end use, end user, and country of ultimate destination of the item(s) subject to the EAR are as follows: [INSERT END USE, END USER, AND COUNTRY OF ULTIMATE DESTINATION].
(iv) Agrees to cooperate with end-use checks, including a Post-Shipment Verification, conducted by or on behalf of the Bureau of Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce, for any item subject to the EAR in transactions to which they were a party in the last five years. This cooperation includes facilitating the timely conduct of the check and providing full and accurate information concerning the disposition of items subject to the EAR.
(v) Agrees to provide copies of this document and all other export, reexport or transfer (in-country) records required to be retained in part 762 of the EAR.
(vi) Certifies that the individual signing the UVL statement has sufficient authority to legally bind the party.
(c) Criteria for revising the Unverified List. (1) Foreign persons who are parties to an export, reexport, and transfer (in-country) subject to the EAR may be added to the Unverified List if BIS or federal officials acting on BIS's behalf cannot verify the bona fides (i.e., legitimacy and reliability relating to the end use and end user of items subject to the EAR) of such persons because an end-use check, such as a pre-license check (PLC) or a post-shipment verification (PSV), cannot be completed satisfactorily for reasons outside of the U.S. Government's control. Examples in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section provide an illustrative list of those circumstances.
(i) During the conduct of an end-use check, the subject of the check is unable to demonstrate the disposition of items subject to the EAR.
(ii) The existence or authenticity of the subject of an end-use check cannot be verified (e.g., the subject of the check cannot be located or contacted).
(iii) Lack of cooperation by the host government authority prevents an end-use check from being conducted.
(2) BIS will remove a person from the Unverified List when BIS is able to verify the bona fides of the listed person as an end user, consignee, or other party to exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) involving items subject to the EAR by completing a PLC or PSV. In the limited circumstance involving a PLC or PSV that cannot be completed due to lack of host government cooperation, an alternative bona fides verification process may be determined by BIS to be sufficient. A determination to remove a person from the Unverified List based on the criteria in this paragraph is separate from any determination made by BIS pursuant to § 744.11(b) of the EAR, and must be requested through paragraph (d) of this section.
(d) Procedure for requesting removal of a person on the Unverified List. Any person listed on the Unverified List may request that its listing be amended or removed.
(1) All such requests, including reasons therefor and information that verifies the bona fides, i.e., legitimacy and reliability of the person listed on the Unverified List as an end user, consignee or other party to exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of items subject to the EAR, must be in writing and sent to: Director, Office of Enforcement Analysis, Bureau of Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Room 4065, Washington, DC 20230, via fax to (202) 482-0971, or by email to UVLRequest@bis.doc.gov.
(2) The Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Enforcement will review such requests and will convey the decision on the request to the requester in writing based on an assessment of the listed person's bona fides as a party to exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) subject to the EAR. That decision will be the final agency action on the request.
[78 FR 76747, Dec. 19, 2013]

§ 744.16 Entity List.

The Entity List (supplement no. 4 to this part) identifies persons or addresses of persons reasonably believed to be involved, or to pose a significant risk of being or becoming involved, in activities contrary to the national security or foreign policy interests of the United States. The entries are added to the Entity List pursuant to sections of part 744 (Control Policy: End-User and End-Use Based) and part 746 (Embargoes and Other Special Controls) of the EAR.
(a) License requirements. In addition to the license requirements for items specified on the CCL, you may not, without a license from BIS, export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) any items included in the License Requirement column of an entry on the Entity List (supplement no. 4 to this part) when an entity associated with that entry or when any entity using an address of high diversion risk associated with that entry is a party to a transaction as described in § 748.5(c) through (f) of the EAR. The specific license requirement for each listed entity or address with high diversion risk is identified in the license requirement column on the Entity List in supplement no. 4 to this part.
(b) License exceptions. No license exceptions are available for exports, reexports or transfers (in-country) to listed entities or addresses that present a high diversion risk of specified items, except license exceptions for items listed in § 740.2(a)(5) of the EAR destined to listed Indian or Pakistani entities to ensure the safety of civil aviation and safe operation of commercial passenger aircraft, and in the case of entities added to the Entity List pursuant to § 744.20, to the extent specified on the Entity List.
(c) License review policy—(1) General review policy. The license review policy for each listed entity or address that presents a high diversion risk is identified in the License Review Policy column on the Entity List.
(2) [Reserved]
(d) The End-User Review Committee (ERC). The End-User Review Committee (ERC), composed of representatives of the Departments of Commerce (Chair), State, Defense, Energy and, where appropriate, the Treasury, generally makes decisions regarding additions to, removals from, or other modifications to the Entity List.
(e) Removal or modification requests. Any entity listed on the Entity List or the owner or operator of any address that presents a high diversion risk listed on the Entity List may request that its listing be removed or modified. Any foreign entity that is owned, directly or indirectly, individually or in aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more entities listed on the Entity List, or by entities subject to Entity List license requirements or other Entity List restrictions based upon their ownership, may request that its Entity List owner's entry listing be modified to exclude the requester. All such requests, including reasons therefor, must be in writing and sent to: Chair, End-User Review Committee, Bureau of Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Room 3886, Washington, DC 20230.
(1) Review. The ERC will review such requests in accordance with the procedures set forth in Supplement No. 5 to this part.
(2) BIS action. The Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration will convey the decision on the request to the requester in writing. That decision will be the final agency action on the request.
(f) Addresses that present a high diversion risk. In limited circumstances, such as when multiple entities on the Entity List use the same address, or the name of an entity at a particular address is unknown to BIS, BIS may determine that such an address presents a high risk of diversion and publish the address on the Entity List without an associated entity name. These entries will apply license requirements, license review policies, and restrictions on the use of license exceptions for all entities using that address. When submitting a license application, the applicant should name the specific entity on the application. In the license application field for additional information, the applicant should state that the address is on the Entity List.
[81 FR 64695, Sept. 20, 2016, as amended at 87 FR 55250, Sept. 9, 2022; 89 FR 51652, June 18, 2024; 89 FR 58273, July 18, 2024; 89 FR 60303, July 25, 2024; 90 FR 47212, Sept. 30, 2025]

Effective Date Note:

At 90 FR 50857, Nov. 12, 2025, in § 744.16, the introductory text of paragraph (e) was stayed, effective until Nov. 9, 2026.

§ 744.17 Restrictions on certain exports, reexports and transfers (in-country) of microprocessors and associated “software” and “technology” for “military end uses” and to “military end users.”

(a) General prohibition. In addition to the license requirements set forth elsewhere in the EAR, you may not export, reexport or transfer (in-country) microprocessors (“microprocessor microcircuits,” “microcomputer microcircuits,” and microcontroller microcircuits having a processing speed of 5 GFLOPS or more and an arithmetic logic unit with an access width of 32 bit or more, including those incorporating “information security” functionality), or associated “software” and “technology” for the “production” or “development” of such microprocessors without a license if, at the time of the export, reexport or transfer (in-country), you know, have reason to know, or are informed by BIS that the item will be or is intended to be used for a 'military end use,' as defined in paragraph (d) of this section, in a destination listed in Country Group D:1 (see supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR); or by a 'military end user,' as defined in paragraph (e) of this section, in a destination listed in Country Group D:1.
(b) Additional prohibition on exporters or reexporters informed by BIS. BIS may inform an exporter, reexporter or transferor, either individually by specific notice or through amendment to the EAR, that a license is required for export, reexport or transfer (in-country) of items described in paragraph (a) of this section to specified end users, because BIS has determined that there is an unacceptable risk of diversion to the end uses or end users described in paragraph (a) of this section. Specific notice is to be given only by, or at the direction of, the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. When such notice is provided orally, it will be followed by a written notice within two working days signed by the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. The absence of any such notification does not excuse the exporter, reexporter or transferor from compliance with the license requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) License review standards. There is a presumption of denial for applications to export, reexport or transfer (in-country) items subject to this section.
(d) Military end-use. In this section, the phrase `military end use' means incorporation into: a military item described on the U.S. Munitions List (USML) (22 CFR part 121, International Traffic in Arms Regulations) or the Wassenaar Arrangement Munitions List (as set out on the Wassenaar Arrangement Web site at http://www.wassenaar.org); commodities classified under ECCNs ending in “A018” or under “600 series” ECCNs; or any commodity that is designed for the “use,” “development,” “production,” or deployment of military items described on the USML, the Wassenaar Arrangement Munitions List or classified under ECCNs ending in “A018” or under “600 series” ECCNs. supplement No. 1 of this part lists examples of 'military end use.'
(e) Military end user. In this section, the term 'military end user' means the national armed services (army, navy, marine, air force, or coast guard), as well as the national guard and national police, government intelligence or reconnaissance organizations, or any person or entity whose actions or functions are intended to support 'military end uses' as defined in paragraph (d) of this section.
(f) Exceptions. The prohibitions described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section supersede any license exception or No License Required (NLR) designation that would otherwise apply to a transaction subject to the EAR, except that this license requirement does not apply to exports, reexports or transfers (in-country) of items for or on behalf of the official use by personnel and agencies of the U.S. Government or to agencies of a cooperating government authorized by License Exception GOV pursuant to § 740.11 of the EAR. See § 740.11(b)(1) of the EAR for the definition of 'agency of the U.S. Government' and § 740.11(c)(1) for the definition of 'agency of a cooperating government.'
[79 FR 75046, Dec. 17, 2014]

§ 744.18 [Reserved]

§ 744.19 Licensing policy regarding persons sanctioned pursuant to specified statutes.

Notwithstanding any other licensing policy elsewhere in the EAR, BIS will deny any export or reexport license application if any person who is a party to the transaction (i.e., the applicant, other party authorized to receive a license, purchaser, intermediate consignee, ultimate consignee, or end-user) is subject to one or more of the sanctions described in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (e) of this section and will deny any export or reexport license application for an item listed on the Commerce Control List with a reason for control of MT if a person who is a party to the transaction is subject to a sanction described in paragraph (d) of this section.
(a) A sanction issued pursuant to the Iran-Iraq Arms Nonproliferation Act of 1992 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note) that prohibits the issuance of any license to or by the sanctioned person.
(b) A sanction issued pursuant to the Iran, North Korea, and Syria Nonproliferation Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 note) that prohibits the granting of a license and requires the suspension of an existing license for the transfer to foreign persons of items, the export of which is controlled under the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C. app. 2401-2420), or the Export Administration Regulations.
(c) A sanction issued pursuant to section 11B(b)(1)(B)(ii) of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C. app. 2401-2420), that prohibits the issuance of new licenses for exports to the sanctioned person of items controlled pursuant to the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended.
(d) A sanction issued pursuant to section 11B(b)(1)(B)(i) of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C. app. 2401-2420), that prohibits the issuance of new licenses for exports to the sanctioned person of MTCR Annex equipment or technology controlled pursuant to the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended.
(e) A sanction issued pursuant to the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note) that prohibits the issuance of a specific license or grant of any other specific permission or authority to export any goods or technology to a sanctioned person under the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C. app. 2401-2420).
[77 FR 5388, Feb. 3, 2012]

§ 744.20 [Reserved]

§ 744.21 Restrictions on certain 'military end uses' or 'military end users'.

(a) General prohibition. In addition to the license requirements for items specified on the Commerce Control List (CCL) (supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR), you may not export, reexport, or transfer (in-country):
(1) Any item subject to the EAR listed in supplement no. 2 to this part without a license if, at the time of the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country), you have “knowledge,” as defined in § 772.1 of the EAR, that the item is intended, entirely or in part, for a 'military end use,' as defined in paragraph (f) of this section, in Burma, Cambodia, the People's Republic of China (China), Nicaragua, or Venezuela, or a Burmese, Cambodian, Chinese, Nicaraguan, or Venezuelan 'military end user,' as defined in paragraph (g) of this section, wherever located. 'Military end users' located outside of Burma, Cambodia, China, Nicaragua, or Venezuela are limited to entities identified on the 'Military End-User' (MEU) List under supplement no. 7 to this part.
(2) Any item subject to the EAR without a license if, at the time of the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country), you have “knowledge,” as defined in § 772.1 of the EAR that the item is intended, entirely or in part, for a 'military end use,' as defined in paragraph (f) of this section, in Belarus or Russia, or a Belarusian or Russian 'military end user,' as defined in paragraph (g) of this section, wherever located. Belarusian or Russian 'military end users' located outside of Belarus or Russia are limited to entities identified on the Entity List under supplement no. 4 to this part with a footnote 3 designation and a reference to this section.
Note 1 to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2): An entity anywhere in the world, including in Burma, Cambodia, China, Nicaragua, or Venezuela, may be listed on the Entity List as a Belarusian or Russian 'military end user' with a footnote 3 designation. If the entity is not a Belarusian or Russian 'military end user,' but has otherwise been identified by the End User Review Committee (ERC) as a 'military end user,' that entity may be identified under the 'Military End-User' (MEU) List under supplement no. 7 to this part. As noted in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, exporters, reexporters, and transferors, even in the absence of any such notification, are not excused from compliance with the license requirements of this paragraph (a) for all entities in Burma, Cambodia, China, Nicaragua, or Venezuela to determine whether the entity is a 'military end user' for purposes of paragraph (g) of this section because supplement no. 7 is not an exhaustive listing of 'military end users' in those countries. As noted in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, exporters, reexporters, and transferors, even in the absence of any such notification, are not excused from compliance with the license requirements of this paragraph (a) for all entities in Belarus or Russia to determine whether the entity is a 'military end user' for purposes of paragraph (g) of this section because supplement no. 4 under this part is not an exhaustive listing of 'military end users' in those countries.
(3) MEU List and Entity List restrictions extend to foreign affiliates of listed entities owned 50 percent or more by one or more listed entities or entities subject to Entity List or MEU List restrictions based upon their ownership. The MEU List and Entity List license requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section also apply to any foreign entity that is owned, directly or indirectly, individually or in aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more listed entities or entities subject to Entity List or MEU List restrictions based upon their ownership. The license requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section do not apply to unlisted foreign affiliates that are owned, directly or indirectly, individually or in the aggregate, solely by one or more unlisted 'military end users,' unless the unlisted foreign affiliate itself meets the definition of a 'military end user.' An entity owned 50 percent or more, directly or indirectly, by multiple entities subject to EAR license requirements pursuant to some combination of the Entity List, MEU List, or SDN List designated under programs listed in § 744.8(a)(1), is subject to the most restrictive license requirements, license exception eligibility, and license review policy applicable to one or more of its owners under the EAR. If an exporter, reexporter, or transferor cannot determine the ownership percentage of a foreign entity that is owned, directly or indirectly, by one or more listed entities, they must resolve the Red Flag or obtain a license from BIS prior to proceeding with the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) (see Red Flag 29 in supplement no. 3 to part 732).
(b) Additional prohibition on those informed by BIS. BIS may inform you either individually by specific notice, through amendment to the EAR published in the Federal Register, or through a separate notification published in the Federal Register, that a license is required for specific exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) of any item because there is an unacceptable risk of use in or diversion to a 'military end use' in Belarus, Burma, Cambodia, China, Nicaragua, the Russian Federation, or Venezuela, or for a Belarusian, Burmese, Cambodian, Chinese, Nicaraguan, Russian, or Venezuelan 'military end user,' wherever located. Specific notice will be given only by, or at the direction of, the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. When such notice is provided orally, it will be followed by written notice within two working days signed by the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration or the Deputy Assistant Secretary's designee. The absence of BIS notification does not excuse the exporter from compliance with the license requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.
(1) 'Military End-User' (MEU) List. BIS may inform and provide notice to the public that certain entities are subject to the additional prohibition described under this paragraph (b) following a determination by the End-User Review Committee (ERC) that a specific entity is a 'military end user' pursuant to this section and therefore any exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) to that entity represent an unacceptable risk of use in or diversion to a 'military end use' in Belarus, Burma, Cambodia, China, Nicaragua, the Russian Federation, or Venezuela, or for a Belarusian, Burmese, Cambodian, Chinese, Nicaraguan, Russian, or Venezuelan 'military end user,' wherever located. Such Burmese, Cambodian, Chinese, Nicaraguan, or Venezuelan 'military end users' may be added to supplement no. 7 to this part (MEU List). Such Belarusian or Russian 'military end users' may also be added to supplement no. 4 to this part (Entity List) and will be listed with a footnote 3 designation and a reference to this section. License requirements for listed MEU are described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section. The listing of entities under supplement no. 7 or 4 to this part is not an exhaustive listing of 'military end users' for purposes of this section, except for 'military end users' of a country identified in this section (Belarus, Burma, Cambodia, China, Nicaragua, the Russian Federation, or Venezuela) not located in that same country. As specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, 'military end users' of a country identified in this section not located in that same country are exhaustively listed on either the Entity List with a footnote 3 designation and a reference to this section, or on the MEU List under supplement no. 7 this part. Exporters, reexporters, and transferors are responsible for determining whether transactions with entities not listed on supplement no. 7 or 4 to this part are subject to a license requirement under paragraph (a) of this section. The process in this paragraph (b)(1) for placing entities on the MEU List and Entity List is only one method BIS may use to inform exporters, reexporters, and transferors of license requirements under this section.
(i) End-User Review Committee (ERC). The End-User Review Committee (ERC), composed of representatives of the Departments of Commerce (Chair), State, Defense, Energy and, where appropriate, the Treasury, makes all decisions regarding additions to, removals from, or other modifications to the MEU List and Entity List. Decisions by the ERC for purposes of the MEU List and Entity List will be made following the procedures identified in this section and in supplement no. 5 to this part (Procedures for End-User Review Committee Entity List and 'Military End User' (MEU) List Decisions).
(ii) License requirement for parties to the transaction. Consistent with paragraph (a) of this section, a license is required for the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of any item subject to the EAR listed in supplement no. 2 to this part when an entity that is listed on the MEU List as a Burmese, Cambodian, Chinese, Nicaraguan, or Venezuelan 'military end user' is a party to the transaction as described in § 748.5(c) through (f) of the EAR. Consistent with paragraph (a) of this section, a license is required for the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of any item subject to the EAR when a Belarusian or Russian 'military end user' that is listed on the Entity List pursuant to this section is a party to the transaction as described in § 748.5(c) through (f) of the EAR.
(2) Requests for removal from or modification of 'Military End User' (MEU) List and Entity List. Any entity listed on the MEU List or Entity List pursuant to this section may request that its listing be removed or modified. Any foreign entity that is owned, directly or indirectly, individually or in aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more entities listed on the MEU List or Entity List or subject to MEU List or Entity List restrictions based upon their ownership, may request that its MEU List or Entity List owner's entry listing be modified to exclude the requester. All such requests, including reasons therefor, must be in writing and sent to: Chair, End-User Review Committee, Bureau of Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Room 3886, Washington, DC 20230; or by email at ERC@bis.doc.gov. In order for an entity listed on the MEU List or the Entity List pursuant to this section to petition BIS for their removal or modification, as applicable, the entity must address why the entity is not a 'military end user' for purposes of this section.
(i) Review. The ERC will review such requests for removal or modification in accordance with the procedures set forth in supplement no. 5 to this part.
(ii) BIS action. The Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration will convey the decision on the request to the requester in writing. That decision will be the final agency action on the request.
(c) License exception. Despite the prohibitions described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, you may export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) items subject to the EAR under the provisions of License Exception GOV set forth in § 740.11(b)(2)(i) and (ii) of the EAR.
(d) License application procedure. When submitting a license application pursuant to this section, you must state in the “additional information” block of the application that “this application is submitted because of the license requirement in this section (Restrictions on certain 'military end uses' or 'military end users').” In addition, either in the additional information block of the application or in an attachment to the application, you must include all known information concerning the 'military end use' and 'military end user(s)' of the item(s). If you submit an attachment with your license application, you must reference the attachment in the “additional information” block of the application. See supplement no. 2 to part 748, paragraph (c)(c) of the EAR for unique application and submission requirements for Affiliate rule entities that meet the criteria under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(e) License review standards. (1) Applications to export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) items described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section will be reviewed with a presumption of denial. Applications to export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) items described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section will be reviewed with a policy of denial except for food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed under a case-by-case review policy, unless otherwise stated in the license review policy column on the Entity List (supplement no. 4 to this part).
(2) Applications may be reviewed under chemical and biological weapons, nuclear nonproliferation, or missile technology review policies, as set forth in §§ 742.2(b)(4), 742.3(b)(4), and 742.5(b)(4) of the EAR, if the end use may involve certain proliferation activities.
(3) Applications for items requiring a license for any reason that are destined for a 'military end use' in Belarus, Burma, Cambodia, China, Nicaragua, the Russian Federation, or Venezuela or for a Belarusian, Burmese, Cambodian, Chinese, Nicaraguan, Russian, or Venezuelan 'military end user,' wherever located, also will be subject to the review policy stated in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(f) Military end use. In this section, 'military end use' means: Incorporation into a military item described on the U.S. Munitions List (USML) (22 CFR part 121, International Traffic in Arms Regulations); incorporation into items classified under Export Control Classification Numbers (ECCNs) ending in “A018” or under “600 series” ECCNs; or any item that supports or contributes to the operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, refurbishing, “development,” or “production,” of military items described on the USML, or items classified under ECCNs ending in “A018” or under “600 series” ECCNs.
(g) Military end user. In this section, the term 'military end user' means the national armed services (army, navy, marine, air force, or coast guard), as well as the national guard and national police, government intelligence or reconnaissance organizations (excluding those described in § 744.22(f)(2)), or any person or entity whose actions or functions are intended to support 'military end uses' as defined in paragraph (f) of this section.
(h) Effects on contracts. Transactions involving the export, reexport, or transfer (in country) of items to or within Venezuela are not subject to the provisions of this section if the contracts for such transactions were signed prior to November 7, 2014.
[87 FR 13059, Mar. 8, 2022, as amended at 87 FR 34136, June 6, 2022; 87 FR 57080, Sept. 16, 2022; 89 FR 18783, Mar. 15, 2024; 89 FR 68543, Aug. 27, 2024; 90 FR 47212, Sept. 30, 2025]

Effective Date Note:

At 90 FR 50857, Nov. 12, 2025, in § 744.21, paragraph (a)(3), the introductory text of paragraph (b)(2), and the last sentence in paragraph (d) were stayed, effective until Nov. 9, 2026.

§ 744.22 Restrictions on exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) to certain military-intelligence end uses or end users.

(a) General prohibition. In addition to the license requirements for items specified on the Commerce Control List (CCL) (supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR), you may not export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) any item subject to the EAR without a license from BIS if, at the time of the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country), you have “knowledge” that the item is intended, entirely or in part, for a 'military-intelligence end use' in Belarus, Burma, Cambodia, the People's Republic of China (China), Russia, or Venezuela; or a country listed in Country Groups E:1 or E:2 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR), or for a Belarusian, Burmese, Cambodian, Chinese, Russian, or Venezuelan 'military-intelligence end user' or a 'military-intelligence end user' of a country listed in Country Group E:1 or E:2, wherever located. 'Military intelligence end-users' located outside of Belarus, Burma, Cambodia, the People's Republic of China (China), Russia, or Venezuela; or a country listed in Country Groups E:1 or E:2, are limited to entities identified under paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
(b) Additional prohibition on those informed by BIS. BIS may inform you either individually by specific notice, through amendment to the EAR published in the Federal Register, or through a separate notification published in the Federal Register, that a license is required for specific exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) of any item subject to the EAR because there is an unacceptable risk of use in, or diversion to, a 'military-intelligence end use' in Belarus, Burma, Cambodia, China, Russia, or Venezuela; or a country listed in Country Group E:1 or E:2 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR), or for a Belarusian, Burmese, Cambodian, Chinese, Russian, or Venezuelan 'military-intelligence end user' or a 'military-intelligence end user' of a country listed in Country Group E:1 or E:2, wherever located.
(c) License exception. Notwithstanding the prohibitions described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, you may export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) items subject to the EAR under the provision of License Exception GOV set forth in § 740.11(b)(2)(ii) of the EAR.
(d) License application procedure. When submitting a license application pursuant to this section, you must state in the “additional information” block of the application that “this application is submitted because of the license requirement in § 744.22 of the EAR (Restrictions on exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) to certain military-intelligence end uses or end users).” In addition, either in the additional information block of the application or in an attachment to the application, you must include all known information concerning the military-intelligence end use(s) or end user(s) of the item(s). If you submit an attachment with your license application, you must reference the attachment in the “additional information” block of the application.
(e) License review policy. Applications to export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) items requiring a license pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section will be reviewed with a presumption of denial.
(f) Definitions. (1) 'Military-intelligence end use' means the “development,” “production,” operation, installation (including on-site installation), maintenance (checking), repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of, or incorporation into, items described on the U.S. Munitions List (USML) (22 CFR part 121, International Traffic in Arms Regulations), or classified under ECCNs ending in “A018” or under “600 series” ECCNs, which are intended to support the actions or functions of a 'military-intelligence end user,' as defined in this section.
(2) 'Military-intelligence end user' means any intelligence or reconnaissance organization of the armed services (army, navy, marine, air force, or coast guard); or national guard. For license requirements applicable to other government intelligence or reconnaissance organizations of these countries, see § 744.21. 'Military-intelligence end users' subject to the license requirements set forth in this section located in Belarus, Burma, Cambodia, China, Russia, or Venezuela; or a country listed in Country Groups E:1 or E:2 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR) include, but are not limited to, the 'military-intelligence end users' identified in this paragraph (f)(2). For 'military-intelligence end users' located in all other countries this paragraph (f)(2) is an exhaustive listing.
(i) Burma. Office of Chief of Military Security Affairs (OCMSA) and the Directorate of Signal.
(ii) Cambodia. General Department of Research and Intelligence (GDRI).
(iii) Cuba. Directorate of Military Intelligence (DIM) and Directorate of Military Counterintelligence (CIM).
(iv) China, People's Republic of. Intelligence Bureau of the Joint Staff Department.
(v) Iran. Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Intelligence Organization (IRGC-IO) and Artesh Directorate for Intelligence (J2).
(vi) Korea, North. Reconnaissance General Bureau (RGB).
(vii) Russia. Main Intelligence Directorate (GRU).
(viii) Syria. Military Intelligence Service.
(ix) Venezuela. General Directorate of Military Counterintelligence (DGCIM).
(x) Belarus. The Main Intelligence Directorate of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Belarus.
(xi) Other countries. Paragraph (f)(2)(ix) of this section identifies 'military-intelligence end users' located in all countries other than those identified in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) through (x) of this section.
[86 FR 70019, Dec. 9, 2021, as amended at 87 FR 13060, Mar. 8, 2022; 87 FR 57081, Sept. 16, 2022]

§ 744.23 “Supercomputer,” “advanced-node integrated circuits,” and semiconductor manufacturing equipment end use controls.

(a) General prohibition. In addition to the license requirements for items specified on the CCL, you may not export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) without a license any item subject to the EAR described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section when you have “knowledge” at the time of export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) that the item is destined for a destination, end use, or type of end user described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section, unless excluded by paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
(1) “Supercomputers”—(i) Item scope. (A) An integrated circuit (IC) subject to the EAR and specified in ECCN 3A001, 3A991, 4A994, 5A002, 5A004, or 5A992; or
(B) A computer, “electronic assembly,” or “component” subject to the EAR and specified in ECCN 4A003, 4A004, 4A994, 5A002, 5A004, or 5A992.
(ii) Destination and end-use scope. (A) The “development,” “production,” operation, installation (including on-site installation), maintenance (checking), repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of a “supercomputer” located in or destined to Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5 of supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR; or
(B) The incorporation into, or the “development” or “production” of any “component” or “equipment” that will be used in a “supercomputer” located in or destined to Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5.
(2) “Advanced-node ICs”—(i) Any item at a “production” “facility” of “advanced-node ICs.” Any items subject to the EAR when you know the items will be used in the “development” or “production” of ICs destined to a “facility” located in Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5 where “production” of “advanced-node ICs” occurs.
(ii) Category 3 items to a “facility” where the technology node is unknown. Any item subject to the EAR specified in an ECCN in Product Groups B, C, D, or E in Category 3 of the CCL when you know the item will be used in the “development” or “production” of ICs destined to a “facility” located in Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5 where “production” of integrated circuits occurs, but you do not know whether “production” of “advanced-node ICs” occurs at such “facility.”
(iii) Design of “advanced-node ICs”. Any Electronic Computer Aided Design (ECAD) or Technology Computer Aided Design (TCAD) “software” and “technology” subject to the EAR when you “know” it will be used in the design of an “advanced-node integrated circuit” that will be “produced” in Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5 in supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR.
(iv) “Advanced Node IC” exclusion. Items specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) destined to entities designated with a Footnote 5 are not subject to the license requirements in this section.
(3) Advanced computing items. (i)(A) Any item subject to the EAR and specified in ECCN 3A001.z.1.b, z.2.b, z.3.b, z.4.b; 3A090.b; 4A003.z.1.b, z.2.b; 4A004.z.2; 4A005.z.2; 4A090.b; 5A002.z.1.b, z.2.b, z.3.b, z.4.b, z.5.b; 5A004.z.1.b, z.2.b; 5A992.z.2, 5D002.z.1.b, z.2.b, z.3.b, z.4.b, z.5.b, z.6.b, z.7.b, z.8.b, and z.9.b; 5D992.z.2 destined to any destination other than those specified in Country Groups D:1, D:4, or D:5 (excluding any destination also specified in Country Groups A:5 or A:6) for an entity that is headquartered in, or whose ultimate parent company is headquartered in, either Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5 (e.g., a PRC-headquartered cloud or data server provider located outside of Country Groups D:1, D:4, or D:5 (excluding any destination also specified in Country Groups A:5 or A:6)).
(B) Any item subject to the EAR and specified in ECCN 3A090.c destined to any destination other than Macau or those specified in Country Group D:5, for an entity that is headquartered in, or whose ultimate parent company is headquartered in, either Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5.
(ii) ECCN 3E001 (for 3A090, except for 3A090.c) “technology” when it meets all of the following:
(A) The technology is developed by an entity headquartered in, or whose ultimate parent company is headquartered in, either Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5;
(B) The “technology” is subject to the EAR pursuant to the foreign direct product rule in § 734.9(h)(1)(i)(B)(1) and (h)(2)(ii) of the EAR;
(C) The “technology” is for reexport or transfer (in-country) from or within a destination specified in Country Group D:1, D:4, D:5, excluding any destination also specified in Country Groups A:5 or A:6, to any destination worldwide; and
(D) The “technology” is for the “production” of commodities or software specified in ECCN 3A001.z, 3A090 (except for 3A090.c), 4A003.z, 4A004.z, 4A005.z, 4A090, 5A002.z, 5A004.z, or 5A992.z.
Note 1 to paragraph (a)(3)(ii): This paragraph (a)(3)(ii) includes items subject to the EAR pursuant to the foreign direct product rule in § 734.9(h)(1)(i)(B)(1) and (h)(2)(ii) of the EAR.
(4) Semiconductor manufacturing equipment (SME) and “components,” “assemblies,” and “accessories.” A license is required for export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) if paragraph (a)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section applies.
(i) Directly destined to Macau and Country Group D:5. Any item subject to the EAR and specified on the CCL when destined to or within either Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5 for the “development” or “production” of “equipment,” “components,” “assemblies,” or “accessories” specified in ECCNs 3B001 (except 3B001.g and .h), 3B002, 3B611, 3B903, 3B991 (except 3B991.b.2.a through 3B991.b.2.b), 3B992, 3B993, 3B994 or associated “software” and “technology” in 3D or 3E of the CCL.
(ii) Indirect exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country). Any item subject to the EAR and specified on the CCL for export, reexport, or transfer (in-country), if all of the following apply:
(A) The item (either in its original form or as subsequently incorporated into a foreign-made item) is for “development” or “production” of a foreign-made item, whether subject to the EAR or not, that is specified in an ECCN listed in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section (and not excepted by that paragraph); and
(B) The “development” or “production” is by an entity headquartered in, or whose ultimate parent is headquartered in, Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5.
Note 1 to paragraph (a)(4): For transactions involving “development” or “production” in Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5 by an entity that is headquartered in Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5, but the “development” or “production” is undertaken at the direction of an entity headquartered in the United States or a destination specified in Country Group A:5 or A:6, refer to General Order No. 4 in supp. no. 1 to part 736 (Temporary General License—Less restricted SME “parts,” “components,” or “equipment”).
(5) Back-end exclusion. For purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the term “production” does not apply to back-end steps such as assembly, test, or packaging that do not alter the integrated circuit technology level. If there is a question at the time of export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) about whether a manufacturing stage is back-end or whether a back-end activity alters the technology level, you may submit an Advisory Opinion request to BIS pursuant to § 748.3(c) of the EAR for clarification.
(b) Additional prohibition on persons informed by BIS. BIS may inform persons, either individually by specific notice or through amendment to the EAR published in the Federal Register, that a license is required for a specific export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of any item subject to the EAR to a certain end-user, because there is an unacceptable risk of use in, or diversion to, the end uses specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. Specific notice is to be given only by, or at the direction of, the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. When such notice is provided orally, it will be followed by a written notice within two working days signed by the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration or the Deputy Assistant Secretary's designee. However, the absence of any such notification does not excuse persons from compliance with the license requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) License exceptions. No license exceptions may overcome the prohibition described in paragraph (a) of this section, except the prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(4) and (a)(3)(i) of this section may be overcome by license exceptions in § 740.2(a)(9)(i) or (ii) of the EAR, respectively.
(d) License review standards. License review will consider several factors including technology level, customers, compliance plans, and contract sanctity.
(1) Presumption of denial. Applications will be reviewed with a presumption of denial for Macau and destinations specified in Country Group D:5 and any entity headquartered in, or with an ultimate parent headquartered in, Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5, unless either paragraph (d)(2) or (3) applies.
(2) Presumption of approval. Applications will be reviewed with a presumption of approval for end users headquartered in the United States or a destination specified in Country Group A:5 or A:6, that are not majority-owned by an entity headquartered in either Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5.
(3) Case-by-case. There is a case-by-case license review policy for license applications that meet one of the following conditions:
(i) For items specified in ECCN 3A090, 4A090, 3A001.z, 4A003.z, 4A004.z, 4A005.z, 5A002.z, 5A004.z, 5A992.z, 5D002.z, or 5D992.z, except for items designed or marketed for use in a datacenter and meeting the parameters of 3A090.a;
(ii) For items subject to the license requirements of this section where there is a foreign-made item that is not subject to the license requirements of this section and performs the same function as an item subject to the EAR license requirements of this section;
(iii) For items specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) of this section that meet the criteria for case-by-case license review under § 742.6(b)(10)(iii)(A)(1); or
(iv) For all other applications not specified in paragraph (d)(1) or (2) or (d)(3)(i), (ii), or (iii).
[88 FR 73449, Oct. 25, 2023, as amended at 88 FR 73495, Oct. 25, 2023; 89 FR 23886, Apr. 4, 2024; 89 FR 96818, Dec. 5, 2024; 90 FR 4562, Jan. 15, 2025; 91 FR 1687, Jan. 15, 2026]

Supplement No. 1 to Part 744—Military End-Use Examples for § 744.17

(a) Examples of military end-uses (as described in § 744.17 (d) of this part) of general-purpose microprocessors classified as ECCN 3A991.a.1 includes employing such microprocessors in the “use”, “development”, “production”, or deployment of:
(1) Cruise missiles;
(2) Electronic suites of military aircraft and helicopters;
(3) Radar for searching, targeting, or tracking systems;
(4) Command/control/communications or navigation systems;
(5) Unmanned aerial vehicles capable of performing military reconnaissance, surveillance, or combat support;
(6) Rocket or missile systems;
(7) Electronic or information warfare systems; or
(8) Intelligence, reconnaissance, or surveillance systems suitable for supporting military operations.
(b) [Reserved]
[68 FR 1797, Jan. 14, 2003]

Supplement No. 2 to Part 744—List of Items Subject to the Military End Use or End User License Requirement of § 744.21

The following items, as described, are subject to the military end use or end user license requirement in § 744.21.
(1) Category 1 Materials, Chemicals, Microorganisms, and Toxins
(i) 1A290 Depleted uranium (any uranium containing less than 0.711% of the isotope U 235) in shipments of more than 1,000 kilograms in the form of shielding contained in X ray units, radiographic exposure or teletherapy devices, radioactive thermoelectric generators, or packaging for the transportation of radioactive materials.
(ii) 1C990 Fibrous and filamentary materials, not controlled by 1C010 or 1C210, for use in “composite” structures and with a specific modulus of 3.18x10 6m or greater and a specific tensile strength of 7.62x10 4m or greater.
(iii) 1C996 Hydraulic fluids containing synthetic hydrocarbon oils, having all the characteristics in the List of Items Controlled.
(iv) 1D993 “Software” specially designed for the “development”, “production”, or “use” of equipment or materials controlled by 1C210.b, or 1C990.
(v) 1D999 Limited to specific software controlled by 1D999.b for equipment controlled by 1B999.e that is specially designed for the production of prepregs controlled in Category 1, n.e.s.
(vi) 1E994 Limited to “technology” for the “development”, “production”, or “use” of fibrous and filamentary materials other than glass, aramid or polyethylene controlled by 1C990.
(2) Category 2 Materials Processing
(i) 2A290 Generators and other equipment “specially designed,” prepared, or intended for use with nuclear plants.
(ii) 2A291 Equipment, except items controlled by 2A290, related to nuclear material handling and processing and to nuclear reactors, and “parts,” “components” and “accessories” therefor (see List of Items Controlled).
(iii) 2A991 Limited to bearings and bearing systems not controlled by 2A001 and with operating temperatures above 573 K (300 °C).
(iv) 2B991 Limited to “numerically controlled” machine tools having “positioning accuracies”, with all compensations available, less (better) than 9 µm along any linear axis; and machine tools controlled under 2B991.d.1.a.
(v) 2B992 Non “numerically controlled” machine tools for generating optical quality surfaces, and specially designed components therefor.
(vi) 2B996 Limited to dimensional inspection or measuring systems or equipment not controlled by 2B006 with measurement uncertainty equal to or less (better) than (1.7 + L/1000) micrometers in any axes (L measured Length in mm).
(vii) 2B999 Specific processing equipment, n.e.s. (see List of Items Controlled).
(viii) 2D290 “Software” “specially designed” or modified for the “development,” “production,” or “use” of items controlled by 2A290 or 2A291.
(3) Category 3 Electronics Design, Development and Production
(i) 3A991 Electronic devices, and “components” not controlled by 3A001.
(ii) 3A992 General purpose electronic equipment not controlled by 3A002.
(iii) 3A999 Specific processing equipment, n.e.s. (see List of Items Controlled).
(iv) 3B991 Equipment not controlled by 3B001 for the manufacture of electronic “parts,” “components” and materials, and “specially designed” “parts,” “components” and “accessories” therefor.
(v) 3B992 Equipment not controlled by 3B002 for the inspection or testing of electronic “components” and materials, and “specially designed” “parts,” “components” and “accessories” therefor.
(vi) 3C992 Positive resists designed for semiconductor lithography specially adjusted (optimized) for use at wavelengths between 370 and 245 nm.
(vii) 3D991 “Software” “specially designed” for the “development”, “production”, or “use” of electronic devices, “parts” or “components” controlled by 3A991, general purpose electronic equipment controlled by 3A992, or manufacturing and test equipment controlled by 3B991 and 3B992; or “software” “specially designed” for the “use” of equipment controlled by 3B001.g and .h.
(viii) 3E991 Limited to “technology” according to the General Technology Note for the “development,” “production,” or “use” of digital oscilloscopes and transient recorders using analog-to-digital conversion techniques, capable of storing transients by sequentially sampling single-shot inputs at successive intervals of less than 1 ns (greater than 1 giga-sample per second), digitizing to 8 bits or greater resolution and storing 256 or more samples.
(4) Category 4 Computers
(i) 4A994 Limited to computers not controlled by 4A001 or 4A003, with an Adjusted Peak Performance (“APP”) exceeding 0.5 Weighted TeraFLOPS (WT).
(ii) 4D993 “Program” proof and validation “software”, “software” allowing the automatic generation of “source codes”, and operating system “software” that are specially designed for real time processing equipment.
(iii) 4D994 Limited to “software” specially designed or modified for the “development”, “production”, or “use” of equipment controlled by 4A101.
(5) Category 5 (Part 1) Telecommunications and Category 5 (Part 2) Information Security
(i) 5A991 Limited to telecommunications equipment designed to operate outside the temperature range from 219K (-54 °C) to 397K (124 °C), which is controlled by 5A991.a., radio equipment using Quadrature-amplitude-modulation (QAM) techniques, which is controlled by 5A991.b.7., and phased array antennae, operating above 10.5 Ghz, except landing systems meeting ICAO standards (MLS), which are controlled by 5A991.f.
(ii) 5B991 Telecommunications test equipment, n.e.s.
(iii) 5D991 Limited to “software” specially designed or modified for the “development”, “production”, or “use” of equipment controlled by 5A991.a., 5A991.b.7., and 5A991.f., or of “software” specially designed or modified for the “development”, “production”, or “use” of equipment controlled by 5A991.a., 5A991.b.7., and 5A991.f.
(iv) 5E991 Limited to “technology” for the “development”, “production” or “use” of equipment controlled by 5A991.a., 5A991.b.7., or 5A991.f., or of “software” specially designed or modified for the “development”, “production”, or “use” of equipment controlled by 5A991.a., 5A991.b.7., and 5A991.f.
(v) 5A992 Equipment not controlled by 5A002 (see List of Items Controlled).
(vi) 5D992 “Information Security” “software” not controlled by 5D002 (see List of Items Controlled).
(6) Category 6 Sensors and Lasers
(i) 6A991 Marine or terrestrial acoustic equipment, n.e.s., capable of detecting or locating underwater objects or features or positioning surface vessels or underwater vehicles; and “specially designed” “parts” and “components,” n.e.s.
(ii) 6A993 Cameras, not controlled by 6A003 or 6A203 (see List of Items Controlled).
(iii) 6A995 “Lasers”, not controlled by 6A005 or 6A205.
(iv) 6A996 “Magnetometers” not controlled by ECCN 6A006, “Superconductive” electromagnetic sensors, and “specially designed” “components” therefor, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).
(v) 6C992 Optical sensing fibers not controlled by 6A002.d.3 which are modified structurally to have a “beat length” of less than 500 mm (high birefringence) or optical sensor materials not described in 6C002.b and having a zinc content of equal to or more than 6% by “mole fraction.”
(7) Category 7 Navigation and Avionics
(i) 7A994 Other navigation direction finding equipment, airborne communication equipment, all aircraft inertial navigation systems not controlled under 7A003 or 7A103, and other avionic equipment, including parts and components, n.e.s.
(ii) 7B994 Other equipment for the test, inspection, or “production” of navigation and avionics equipment.
(iii) 7D994 “Software”, n.e.s., for the “development”, “production”, or “use” of navigation, airborne communication and other avionics.
(iv) 7E994 “Technology”, n.e.s., for the “development”, “production”, or “use” of navigation, airborne communication, and other avionics equipment.
(8) Category 8 Marine
(i) 8A992 Vessels, marine systems or equipment, not controlled by 8A001 or 8A002, and “specially designed” “parts” and “components” therefor, and marine boilers and “parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” therefor (see List of Items Controlled).
(ii) 8D992 “Software” specially designed or modified for the “development”, “production” or “use” of equipment controlled by 8A992.
(iii) 8E992 “Technology” for the “development”, “production” or “use” of equipment controlled by 8A992.
(9) Category 9 Propulsion Systems, Space Vehicles and Related Equipment
(i) 9A991 “Aircraft”, n.e.s., and gas turbine engines not controlled by 9A001 or 9A101 and “parts” and “components,” n.e.s. (see List of Items Controlled).
(ii) 9B990 Vibration test equipment and “specially designed” “parts” and “components,” n.e.s.
(iii) 9D991 “Software”, for the “development” or “production” of equipment controlled by 9A991 or 9B991.
(iv) 9E991 “Technology”, for the “development”, “production” or “use” of equipment controlled by 9A991 or 9B991.
[85 FR 23464, Apr. 28, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 54812, Oct. 5, 2021]

Supplement No. 3 to Part 744—Countries Not Subject to Certain Nuclear End-Use Restrictions in § 744.2(a)

[61 FR 12802, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 25459, May 9, 1997; 66 FR 18402, Apr. 9, 2001]

Supplement No. 4 to Part 744—Entity List

This supplement lists certain entities or addresses subject to license requirements and other Entity List restrictions for specified items under this part 744 and part 746 of the EAR. License requirements for these entities include exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) unless otherwise stated. A license is required, to the extent specified on the Entity List, to export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) any item subject to the EAR when an entity or a party to the transaction is operating at an address that is listed on the Entity List under an address entry is a party to the transaction as described in § 748.5(c) through (f) of the EAR. The Entity List license requirements and other Entity List restrictions also apply to any foreign entity that is owned, directly or indirectly, individually or in aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more listed entities or entities that are subject to restrictions based upon their ownership. An entity owned 50 percent or more, directly or indirectly, by multiple entities subject to EAR license requirements pursuant to some combination of the Entity List, MEU List, or SDN List designated under programs listed in § 744.8(a)(1), is subject to the most restrictive license requirements, license exception eligibility, and license review policy applicable to one or more of its owners under the EAR. If an exporter, reexporter, or transferor cannot determine the ownership percentage of a foreign entity that is an entity owned, directly or indirectly, by one or more listed entities, they must resolve the Red Flag or obtain a license from BIS prior to proceeding with the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country), unless a license exception is available (see Red Flag 29 in supplement no. 3 to part 732). This list is revised and updated on a periodic basis in this supplement by adding new or amended notifications and deleting notifications no longer in effect.
Country | Entity | License requirement | License reviewpolicy | Federal Register citation
AFGHANISTAN | Abdul Satar Ghoura, 501, 5th Floor, Amanullah Sancharaki Market Opp Chaman E Huzuri, Kabul, Afghanistan; and Flat No. 41 Block No. 24 Macroyan 3, Kabul, Afghanistan. (See alternate addresses under Pakistan). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 71869, 11/21/11.
Afghan-German Construction Company, Golaye Park, Shari Naw, Kabul, Afghanistan, and Dasht Qala, Takhar Province, Afghanistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 25057, 4/27/12.
Assadullah Majed, 42S WD 18476 22167 Kabul, Afghanistan; and A2 Ground Floor, City Computer Plaza, Shar-e-Naw, Kabul, Afghanistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 71869, 11/21/11.
Emal Bilal Construction Company (EBCC), a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Imal Bilal Road Construction Company; and—Aimal and Balal Company. Kolola Pushta, Charahi Gul-e-Surkh, Kabul, Afghanistan; and Maidan Sahr, Hetefaq Market, Paktiya, Afghanistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 44683, 8/1/14.
Emal Bilal Mangal, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Imal Bilal; and—Aimal Balal; and—Bellal Mangal. Kolola Pushta, Charahi Gul-e-Surkh, Kabul, Afghanistan; and Maidan Sahr, Hetefaq Market, Paktiya, Afghanistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 44683, 8/1/14.
Fazal Rahim Farid, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Fazel Rahim Farid;—Farid; and—Engineer Idris. Microrayan 3rd Apt. 45, block #21, Kabul, Afghanistan; and A2 Ground Floor, City Computer Plaza, Shar-e-Naw, Kabul, Afghanistan. (See alternate addresses under Pakistan). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 71869, 11/21/11.
Gulf Gate Sea Cargo LLC, Gulzaad Market Building, 4th Floor, Room 2, Kabul, Afghanistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.
Habib ur Rahman, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Hanif; and—Habib Rahman. Ghazni City, Afghanistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 71869, 11/21/11.
Haji Khalil Construction Company, Wazir Akbar Khan, Road Number 10, In front of National Bank, District 10, Kabul, Afghanistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 25057, 4/27/12.
Hanif Computer Zone (HCZ), Ghazni City, Afghanistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 71869, 11/21/11.
Heim German Afghan Khalil Company, Wazir Akbar Khan, District 10, Kabul, Afghanistan; and Shahr-e-Now, Kabul, Afghanistan, and Paktiyakoot, Jalalabad Road, District #9, Kabul, Afghanistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 25057, 4/27/12.
Ibrahim Haqqani, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Hajji Sahib; and—Maulawi Haji Ibrahim Haqqani Afghanistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 25057, 4/27/12.
Iqra Computer Products, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Iqra IT solutions; and—Iqra Computer Store. A2 Ground Floor, City Computer Plaza, Shar-e-Naw, Kabul, Afghanistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 71869, 11/21/11.
Khalil Zadran, a.k.a., the following eight aliases:—Samar Gul Khalil;—Khalil Samar Gul;—Samer Khalil;—Samer Gul Khalil;—Khlil Khalil;—Kalil Khalil;—Khalil Khualil; and—Haji Khalil. Shahreno, Kabul, Afghanistan. (See alternate address in Pakistan). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 25057, 4/27/12.
Khalil Zadran Company, a.k.a., the following alias:—Khalil Construction. Afghanistan (See alternate address in Pakistan). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 25057, 4/27/12.
Kurshid Ghoura, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Kurshed Ghoura; and—Kursheed Ghoura. 501, 5th Floor, Amanullah Sancharaki Market Opp Chaman E Huzuri, Kabul, Afghanistan; and Flat No. 41 Block No. 24 Macroyan 3, Kabul, Afghanistan. (See alternate addresses under Pakistan). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 71869, 11/21/11.
Lapcom Computer Stores, A2 Ground Floor, City Computer Plaza, Shar-e-Naw, Kabul, Afghanistan. (See alternate address under Pakistan). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 71869, 11/21/11.
Mohammad Jan Khan Mangal, Kolola Pushta, Charahi Gul-e-Surkh, Kabul, Afghanistan; and Maidan Sahr, Hetefaq Market, Paktiya, Afghanistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 44683, 8/1/14.
Mohammad Jan Mangal Construction Company (MMCC), Kolola Pushta, Charahi Gul-e-Surkh, Kabul, Afghanistan; and Maidan Sahr, Hetefaq Market, Paktiya, Afghanistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 56003, 9/18/14.
Muhammad Halim Ghoura, 501, 5th Floor, Amanullah Sancharaki Market Opp Chaman E Huzuri, Kabul, Afghanistan; and Flat No. 41 Block No. 24 Macroyan 3, Kabul, Afghanistan. (See alternate addresses under Pakistan). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 71869, 11/21/11.
Ologh Beg International Forwarders Ltd., 501, 5th Floor, Amanullah Sancharaki Market Opp Chaman E Huzuri, Kabul, Afghanistan. (See alternate address under Pakistan). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 71869, 11/21/11.
Onyx Construction Company, Shahr-e-Now, Charahi Haji Yaqoub, In front of the AIB Bank, District 10, Kabul, Afghanistan; and Char Rahi Ansari, Toaward Kolola Poshta, Shar-Naw Kabul, Afghanistan 11496. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 25057, 4/27/12.
Qazi Abdallah, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Khan Dilawar;—Ibrahim Valid Javaid;—Jawid, Sa'id Jan 'Abd-al-Salam; and—Ibrahim Walid Microrayan 3rd Apt. 45, Block No. 21, Kabul, Afghanistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 71869, 11/21/11.
Shan Mahmoud Khan Mangal, Kolola Pushta, Charahi Gul-e-Surkh, Kabul, Afghanistan; and Maidan Sahr, Hetefaq Market, Paktiya, Afghanistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 44683, 8/1/14.
Triangle Technologies, Afghanistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 25057, 4/27/12.
Wahab Karwan Construction Company (WKCC), Qabel Boy, Jalalabad Road, District 9, Kabul, Afghanistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 44683, 8/1/14.
Zurmat Construction Company offices, House No. 319, 10th Street Wazeer Akbar Khan, Kabul, Afghanistan; and Wazir Akbar Khan, District 10, Apartment 319, Kabul, Afghanistan; and Tarin Cot City, Afghanistan; and Behind UNAMA Office, Pir Bagh Office, Gardez, Afghanistan; and House No. 01, Street No. 01, Muhaqeq Road (Behind Pakistan and Turkish Embassies), Mazar-e-Sharif, Afghanistan; and Hazratan Street (Behind Jalalalabad Teaching Hospital), Jalalalabad, Afghanistan, and Aino Mena, Street No. 22 (Blue Color House Left Side of Road), Kandahar, Afghanistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 25057, 4/27/12.
Zurmat Foundation, House No. 319, 10th Street Wazeer Akbar Khan, Kabul, Afghanistan; and Wazir Muhammad—Akbar Khan, Kabul, Afghanistan; and Wazir Akbar Khan, District 10, Apartment 319, Kabul, Afghanistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 25057, 4/27/12.
Zurmat Group of Companies, House No. 319, 10th Street Wazeer Akbar Khan, Kabul, Afghanistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 25057, 4/27/12.
Zurmat Material Testing Laboratory, House 01, Street 01, Kart-e-3 (opposite of Habibia High School), Dar-ul-Aman Road, Kabul, Afghanistan; and House No. 02, Street No. 01, Kart-e-Malemin, Khandahar, Afghanistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 25057, 4/27/12.
ARGENTINA | Huawei Cloud Argentina, Buenos Aires, Argentina. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Tech Investment Co., Ltd., Argentina, Av. Leandro N. Alem 815, C1054 CABA, Argentina. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29852, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
ARMENIA | Aram Kocharyan, Aram Khachatrian 12, Apt 93, Yerevan, 0015, Armenia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
ARM-BEKAR LLC, Aram Khachatrian 12, Apt 93, Yerevan, 0015, Armenia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Bold Bridge International, LLC, a.k.a. the following alias:—BB Bold Bridge International. Room 463, H. Hakobyan 3, Yerevan, Armenia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 1701, 1/13/10.77 FR 24590, 4/25/12.
Hermine Kocharyan, Aram Khachatrian 12, Apt 93, Yerevan, 0015, Armenia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Markel Closed Joint Stock Company (Markel CJSC), 17, Apt 31, Mashtoc Avenue, Yerevan, Armenia, 375002; and 26 Dzorapi Street, Yerevan, 0015, Armenia | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
Medisar, LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias: —“Medisar” LLC. 4/9 Getari St., 0023 Yerevan, Armenia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Tako LLC, the following one alias: —Taco LLC. 17 Garegin Nzhdehi Street, Shengavit, Yerevan, 0026, Armenia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Vertir Airlines, 8/3 D Angaght Street, 376009, Yerevan, Armenia; and 54-100 Mamikonyan Str., Yerevan, Armenial 79, Armenia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Veteran Avia LLC a.k.a., the following alias:—Veteran Airline. 64, Baghramyam Avenue, Apt 16, Yerevan 0033, Armenia; and 1 Eervand Kochari Street Room 1, 375070 Yerevan, Armenia (See also addresses under Greece, Pakistan, and U.K.) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 44683, 8/1/14. 81 FR 8829, 2/23/16. 82 FR 2887, 1/10/17.
Yerevan Telecommunications Research Institute (YETRI) Closed Joint Stock Company (CJSC), 26, Dzorapy Street, 0015, Yerevan, Armenia | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
AUSTRALIA | Huawei Technologies (Australia) Pty Ltd., L6 799 Pacific Hwy, Chatswood, New South Wales, 2067, Australia. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29852, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
AUSTRIA | Gulf Gate Spedition GmbH, A-1040 Argentinierstrasse 35/6, Vienna, Austria. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.
BAHRAIN | Huawei Technologies Bahrain, Building 647 2811 Road 2811, Block 428, Muharraq, Bahrain. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29852, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Marzoghi Ltd., 12-20 Albaba Building 119 Road 1507, Manama, Bahrain. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19.
Mohammed Marzoghi, 12-20 Albaba Building 119 Road 1507, Manama, Bahrain. (See also addresses in the United Arab (Emirates). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19.
BELARUS | 140 Repair Plant JSC, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Open Joint Stock Company 140 Repair Plant; and—JSC 140 Repair Plant. 19 Luysi Chalovskoy St., Borisov, 222512, Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
558 Aircraft Repair Plant JSC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—JSC 558 ARP. 7 50 Years VLKSM St., Baranovichi, Brest region, 225320, Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
2566 Radioelectronic Armament Repair Plant JSC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—JSC 2566 ZRREV. 54 Gagarina St., Borisov, 222511, Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
AGAT—Control Systems—Managing Company of Geoinformation Control Systems Holding JSC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—AGAT—Control Systems. 117/1 Nezavisimosti Ave., Minsk, 220114, Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Agat-Electromechanical Plant OJSC, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—JSC Agat Electromechanical Plant; and—Agat-Elektromekhanicheski Zavod. 6 Volgogradskaya St., Minsk, 220012, Belarus; and 117, bld. 3, Nezavisimosti Ave., Minsk 220114, Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
AGAT-SYSTEM, 51B Francyska Skaryna St., Minsk, 220141, Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
ATE-Engineering LLC, 15A Smolenskaya St., Minsk, 220088, Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Bel Huawei Technologies LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias,—BellHuawei Technologies LLC. 5 Dzerzhinsky Ave., Minsk, 220036, Belarus. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29852, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Belmicrosystems Research and Design Center, Office 313, 12 Korzhenevsky Street, 220108 Minsk, Republic of Belarus; and Korjenevsky Str., 12, Minsk, 220108, Republic of Belarus; and 12, Korzhenevskogo Str., Minsk, 220108, Belarus. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 36516, 6/28/10. 77 FR 58006, 9/19/12. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
BelOMO Holding, a.k.a., the following one alias:—The Belarusian Optical and Mechanical Association. 23 Makaenka St., Minsk, 220114, Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Belspetsyneshtechnika SFTUE, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—State-Owned Foreign Trade Unitary Enterprise Belspetsvneshtechnika; and—BSVT. 8 Kalinovsky St., Minsk, 220103, Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Beltechexport, CJSC, 86-B Nezavisimosti Ave., Minsk, 220012, Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
BSVT-New Technologies, 187 Soltysa Street, Minsk, Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Department of Internal Affairs of the Gomel Region Executive Committee, a.k.a., the following one alias:—UVD of the Gomel Region Executive Committee. 3 Kommunarov Street, Gomel, 246050, Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
DMT Trading LLC, 89/2 Pobediteley Ave., 220020 Minsk, Belarus. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Internal Troops of The Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Belarus, a.k.a., the following one alias:—MVD Internal Troops. 4 Gorodskoi Val, Minsk, 220030, Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Joint Stock Company Eleron, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—JSC FCS&HT “SNPO “Eleron”; and—SNPO Eleron. 11 Kalinina Per., Minsk, 220012, Belarus. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
JSC Integral, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—OAO Integral; and—Joint-Stock Company Integral—Holding Managing Company. 121A, Kazintsa I.P. Str., Minsk, 220108, Belarus; and 12 Korzhenevskogo Str., Minsk, 220108, Belarus; and 137 Brestskaya Str., Pinsk, Brest region, 225710, Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR). This license requirement may be overcome by License Exception GOV under § 740.11(b)(2) and (e) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99 and for U.S. Government supported use in the International Space Station (ISS), which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 13061, 3/8/22.87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
KGB Alpha, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—the State Security Committee Alpha;—Alpha Group; and—Group A. Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Kidma Tech OJSC, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—BSVT-New Technologies; and—BSVT-NT. 187 Soltysa Street, Minsk, 220070, Belarus; and 5/1 Ustenskiy Selsovyet, Orshanskiy Region, Vitebskaya Oblast, Ag. Ustye, 211003, Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Minotor-Service, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Industrial-Commercial Private Unitary Enterprise Minotor-Service. 40 Radialnaya St., Minsk, 220070, Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Minsk Wheeled Tractor Plant, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—MZKT; and—Production Republican Unitary Enterprise Minsk Wheeled Tractor Plant. 150 Partizansky Avenue, Minsk, 220021, Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Mohammad Ghassem Najafi, Unit 705, No. 103, Potbediteley Ave., Minsk, Belarus. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 48534, 9/26/18.
Nanotech Ltd, a.k.a., the following one alias: —OOO NANOTEKH. 6 Oginskogo Street, Minsk, 220114, Belarus. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Nilco Group, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Nilfam Khazar Co. Unit 705, No. 103, Potbediteley Ave., Minsk, Belarus (see alternate addresses under Iran and Russia.) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 48534, 9/26/18.
Oboronnye Initsiativy LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—LLC Defense Initiatives. 18 1st lane F. Skaryna, Minsk, 220070, Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
OJS KB Radar Managing Company, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—JSC KB Radar; and—KB Radar. 64A Partizanskyi Prospect, Minsk, 220026, Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Peleng JSC, 25 Makaenka St., Minsk, 220114, Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
SOE Semiconductor Devices Factory, Office 313, 12 Korzhenevsky Street, 220108 Minsk, Republic of Belarus; and Korjenevsky Str., 12, Minsk, 220108, Belarus; and 12, Korzhenevskogo Str., Minsk, 220108, Belarus. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 36516, 6/28/10. 77 FR 58006, 9/19/12. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
State Authority for Military Industry of the Republic of Belarus, 115 Nezavisimosti Avenue, Minsk, 220114, Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
State Security Committee of the Republic of Belarus, 17 Nezavisimosti Avenue, Minsk, 220030, Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
The Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Belarus, including the Armed Forces of Belarus and all operating units wherever located. This includes the national armed services (army and air force), as well as the national guard and national police, government intelligence or reconnaissance organizations of the Republic of Belarus. All addresses located in Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 13061, 3/8/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Transaviaexport Airlines JSC, 44 Zakhariva Street, Minsk, 220034, Republic of Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Vasili Kuntsevich, Office 313, 12 Korzhenevsky Street, 220108 Minsk, Republic of Belarus; and Korjenevsky Str., 12, Minsk, 220108, Republic of Belarus; and 12, Korzhenevskogo Str., Minsk, 220108, Belarus. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 36516, 6/28/10. 77 FR 58006, 9/19/12. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Volatavto OJSC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—NPP VOLATauto. 2/1 Kulman St., office 1-143, Minsk, 220013, Belarus; and 133 Socialist Street, Slutsk, Minsk Region, 223610, Belarus. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
BELGIUM | European Technical Trading BV, a.k.a., the following one alias: —ETT BV. 24 Booiebos, Ghent, Flemish Region, 9031, Belgium. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Hans Maria De Geetere, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Hans De Geetere. 121 Paul Parmentierlaan, Knokke-Heist, 8300, Belgium; and 4 Nyckeestraat, Knokke-Heist, 8300, Belgium. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Huawei Technologies Research & Development Belgium NV, Technologiepark 19, 9052 Zwijnaarde Belgium. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29852, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Industrial Metals and Commodities, Goffarstraad 16, B-1050, Brussels, Belgium. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
Knokke-Heist Support Management Corporation, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Hasa-Invest; and —Knokke-Heist Support Corporation Management. 121 Paul Parmentierlaan, Knokke-Heist, 8300, Belgium; and 4 Nyckeestraat, Knokke-Heist, 8300, Belgium. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Nicolas Kaiga, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Nicholas Kaiga Goffarstraad 16, B-1050, Brussels, Belgium. (See alternate addresses under Netherlands and United Kingdom) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
BELIZE | Ecotherm-Cryo Limited, 11⁄2 Miles Northern Highway, Belize City, Belize. (See alternate address under Latvia). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Experian Holdings, Inc., N Eyre Str, Blake Bldg, Suite 302, Belize City, Belize 99008; and Corner Hutson Eyre Str, Blake Bldg, Suite 302, Belize City, Belize 99008. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
BOLIVIA | Huawei Technologies (Bolivia) S.R.L., La Paz, Bolivia. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29852, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
BRAZIL | Huawei Cloud Brazil, Sau Paulo, Brazil. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 8182, 2/14/22. 87 FR 21012, 4/11/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei do Brasil Telecomunicacões Ltda, Sao Paulo, Brazil; and Av. Jerome Case, 2600, Sorocaba—SP, 18087-220, Brazil. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29852, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
BULGARIA | Dimitar Milanov Dimitrov, G.K. Dianabad, BL.57, ET.11, AP.74. Sofia, Bulgaria. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
Iskren Georgiev, 51 Aleksandar Malinov Blvd., Sofia 1712, Bulgaria. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 3580, 1/26/18.
Lyubka Hristova, 51 Aleksandar Malinov Blvd., Sofia 1712, Bulgaria. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 3580, 1/26/18.
Mariana Marinova Gargova, G.K. Dianabad, BL. 32, VH. V, AP. 53, 1172 Sofia, Bulgaria; and UL.132, NO.14, ET.2, AP.11, Sofia, Bulgaria. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
Mihaela Nenova, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Mihaela Nenova-Muhy, 51 Aleksandar Malinov Blvd., Sofia 1712, Bulgaria. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 3580, 1/26/18.
Milan Dimitrov, UL.132, NO.14, ET.2, AP.11, Sofia, Bulgaria. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
Multi Technology Integration Group EOOD (MTIG), G.K. Dianabad, BL. 32, VH. V, AP. 53, 1172 Sofia, Bulgaria; and UL 132 No 14 AP 11, Sofia, Bulgaria. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
Zhelyaz Andreev, 51 Aleksandar Malinov Blvd., Sofia 1712, Bulgaria. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 3580, 1/26/18.
BURMA | FISCA Security & Communication Co., Ltd., No-1/B, FISCA Building, 9 Miles, Pyay Road, Mayangone Township, Yangon City, Burma. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for telecommunications infrastructure items described in Category 5 Part 1 or Category 5 Part 2 and consumer communications devices identified in § 740.19; Presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Huawei Technologies (Yangon) Co., Ltd., Yangon, Burma. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29852, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
King Royal Technologies Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—KRT. 4, Min Dhama Rd., Shwe Gabar 6th St, Shwe Gabar Housing, Mayangone, Yangon , Burma; and Room 4 Shwe Gabar 6th Yangon, Burma. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 35391, 7/6/21.
Ministry of Defence, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Ministry of Defense; and—MoD. Building 24, Nay Pyi Taw, Burma. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 13180, 3/8/21.
Ministry of Home Affairs, a.k.a., the following one alias:—MOHA. Building 10, Nay Pyi Taw, Burma. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 13180, 3/8/21.
Ministry of Transport and Communications, Office No. 2, Kyidaunggan, Naypidaw, Burma. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for telecommunications infrastructure items described in Category 5 Part 1 or Category 5 Part 2 and consumer communications devices identified in § 740.19; Presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Miya Win International Ltd., 3rd street, Thit Sarhousing, No.3/401, (8) Ward, South Okkalapatownship, Yangon Region, Burma, 11091; and Kokkineresidence Street, No.12/B, Shwe Taungkyar (2) Ward, Bahan Township, Yangon Region, Burma, 11201. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 18985, 3/30/23.
Myanmar Economic Corporation, a.k.a., the following one alias:—MEC. Corner of Ahlone Road and Strand Road, Ahlone Township, Yangon, Burma. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 13180, 3/8/21. 86 FR 35391, 7/6/21.
Myanmar Economic Holdings Limited, a.k.a., the following eight aliases:—MEHL;—Myanma Economic Holdings Limited;—Myanma Economic Holdings Public Company Limited;—Myanmar Business Holdings Public Company Limited;—Myanmar Economic Holdings Public Company Limited;—UMEH;—Union of Myanmar Economic Holdings Company Limited; and—Union of Myanmar Economic Holdings Limited. 189-191 Maha Bandoola Road, Botahtaung Township, Yangon, Burma. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 13180, 3/8/21.
Myanmar New Era Trading Company Ltd., Bo Myint Swe Street, No. (B/193), Aung Chan Thar (2) Ward, Thanlyin Township, Yangon Region, Burma, 01-655200. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 18985, 3/30/23.
Myanmar Wanbao Mining Copper, Ltd., Yangon Office 70 (I)Bo Chein Street Pyay Road, Hlaing Township, Yangon, Burma. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 35391, 7/6/21.
Myanmar Yang Tse Copper, Ltd., 70/I, Bo Chein St., Ward (11), Hlaing, Yangon, Burma. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 35391, 7/6/21.
Naung Yoe Technologies Co., Ltd., No. 92, Thiri Yadanar Shopping Complex Nay Pyi Taw,Zabuthiri Tsp, Nay Pyi Taw, Burma; and No. 16, Aung Min Khaung (2) Street, Kamaryut Township, Yangon, Burma; and Block-4, Unit-4, Corner of Mingalar 2 Street & Blue Diamond Street, Mingalar Mandalay, 73rd Street Between Thazin & Ngu Wah Street, MyoThit1, Chan Mya Tharsi Township, Mandalay, Burma; and No. 315, Aung San Street, Myine Thar Yar Quater, Mawlamyine, Burma; and No. 131, Saw San Tun Street, Myoma Quatar, Taunggyi, Burma. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for telecommunications infrastructure items described in Category 5 Part 1 or Category 5 Part 2 and consumer communications devices identified in § 740.19; Presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Sky Aviator Company Limited, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Sky Aviator Company Ltd.; —Sky Aviator Co.; —Sky Aviator.; and —Sky Aviator Co. Ltd. No. (204/2), Myinthar 11th Street, 14/1 Ward, South Okkalarpa Township, Yangon Region, Burma; and No. 286, Bogyoke Street, Ward No. 2, Waibargi, North Okkalarpa Township, Yangon Region, Burma. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 99703, 12/11/24.
Suntac Group, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Suntac International Trading Co.; and —Suntac Group of Companies. 151 (B) Thiri Mingalar Lane, Mayangon Township, Yangon, Burma. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 18985, 3/30/23.
Synpex Shwe Company Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —SS Techniques Company Limited. Nat Yay Kann (1) Street, No.1259, (35) Quarter, North Dagon Township, Yangon Region, Burma. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 99703, 12/11/24.
Telecom International Myanmar Company Limited, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Mytel; and —MyTel. 61-63 Zoological Garden Road, Yangon, Burma. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 561, 1/6/25.
Wanbao Mining, Ltd., 70 Bo Chain Ln, Yangon, Burma. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 35391, 7/6/21.
CANADA | Abou El-Khir Al Joundi, a.k.a., the following six aliases:—Abou El Kheir Joundi;—Abou Elkhir Al Joundi;—Abou Joundi Et Kheir;—Al Joundi;—Al Jundi; and—Elkheir Aljoundi Abou. 2706 Carre Denise Pelletier, Montreal, Quebec, H4R 2T5 Canada. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 231164/18/12.
Alex Woolf, 2021 Atwater Street, Suite 216, Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3H2P2. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Alexandre Ivjenko, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Alexander Ivjenko, 7150 Rue Chouinard, Montreal, QC, H8N 2Z6 Canada. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Ali Bakhshien, 909-4005 Bayview Ave., Toronto, Canada M2M 3Z9; and HSBC Tower, Suite 502, 3601 Highway 7 East, Markham, Ontario, L3R 0M3, Canada. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54504, 9/22/08. 76 FR 71869, 11/21/11.
Anastasiya Ivjenko, 7150 Rue Chouinard, Montreal, QC, H8N 2Z6, Canada. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Anastassia Voronkevitch, 7150 Rue Chouinard, Montreal, QC H8N 2Z6 Canada | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61249, 10/9/12, 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Canada Lab Instruments, a.k.a., the following alias: —SCO North America 5995 Gouin Ouest, #212, Montreal, Quebec, H4J 2P8 Canada. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 231164/18/12.
CPUNTO Inc., a.k.a., the following one alias: —CPUNTO. 5929 Route Transcanadienne Ste 130 St. Laurent, Quebec H4T 1Z6 Canada. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b), and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 12171, 2/27/23.
EKT 2, Inc., 371 Renforth Drive, Etobicoke M9C 2L8, Toronto, Ontario, Canada | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 24590, 4/25/12.
Electronic Network Inc., a.k.a., the following six aliases: —Electronic Network; —Electronic Network Holdings; —Electronic Network Holdings Inc.; —Electronic Network Incorporated; —Electronic Network Products Inc.; and —Electronic's Network & Technology Corp. 145 Montee De Liesse Ste 10 St. Laurent, Quebec H4T 1T9 Canada. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b), and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 12171, 2/27/23.
Enterprise Chips Hunter (ECH), 2021 Atwater Street, Suite 216, Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3H2P2. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Huawei Technologies Canada Co., Ltd., Markham, ON, Canada. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29852, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Ibrahim Nasir, 1902-1155 High Street, Coquitlam, BC, Canada V3B 7W4. (See alternate address in UAE). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Karim Daadaa, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Karim Hamdi Mohd El Daadaa. 235 Rue Maisonneuve, Laval, Canada. (See alternate addresses under Lebanon). | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Kelvo Inc 6600 21st Avenue, Laval, Quebec H7R3G8, Canada; and 7169 19th Avenue, Laval, Quebec H7R3E5, Canada | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
Kitro Corporation, 909-4005 Bayview Ave., Toronto, Canada M2M 3Z9; and HSBC Tower, Suite 502, 3601 Highway 7 East, Markham, Ontario, L3R 0M3, Canada. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54504, 9/22/08. 76 FR 71869, 11/21/11.
Liubov “Luba” Skvortsova, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Lubov Skvortsova, 7150 Rue Chouinard, Montreal, QC, H8N 2Z6 Canada. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Magtech, a.k.a., the following one alias:—M.A.G. Tech, 5762 Royalmount Ave, Montreal, QC, H4P 1K5, Canada; and 5440 Queen Mart St, Office 103, Montreal, Canada. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Maria Pashovkina, 7150 Rue Chouinard, Montreal, QC, H8N 2Z6, Canada. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Megatek TI Solutions, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Megatek IT Solutions. 4600 Avenue Colomb, #604, Brossard, Quebec, Canada. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Mercury Electronic Solutions, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Mercury Group International, 380 Vansickle Rd Unit 660, St. Catharines, ON L2126P7, Canada; and 127 Rue Wilson, Dollard-des-Ormeaux, Quebec H9A1W7, Canada. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Modern Agropharmaceuticals & Trade Establishment, 235 Rue Maisonneuve, Laval, Canada. (See alternate addresses under Lebanon). | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Natalie Sobolev, 5762 Royalmount Ave, Montreal, QC H4P 1K5, Canada; and 5440 Queen Mart St., Office 103, Montreal, Canada. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Saeed Talebi, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Allen Talebi. P.O. Box 626, Gormley, ONT LOH 1G0 Canada (See alternate addresses under Iran and U.A.E.). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463 12/12/13. 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Satco Corporation, P.O. Box 626, Gormley, ONT L0H 1G0 Canada | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Sputnik E, 7150 Rue Chouinard, Montreal, QC H8N 2Z6 Canada. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Zurab Kartvelishvili, a.k.a., the following one alias: —George Kartveli 7380 Vansickle Rd. Unit 660, St. Catharines, ON L2126P7, Canada; and 127 Rue Wilson, Dollard-des-Ormeaux, Quebec H9A 1W7, Canada | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61249, 10/9/12. 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
CHILE | Huawei Chile S.A., Santiago, Chile. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29852, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Cloud Chile, Santiago, Chile. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF | 3-K Electronics Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias: —3-K Semiconductors Limited. A15, Shenfang Building, Huaqiang North Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518031, China; and A105, 1/F, New East Sun Industrial Building, 18 Shing Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 101a, 1/F, Genplas Industrial Building, 56 Hoi Yuen Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
3HC Semiconductors (HK) Co., Ltd., a.k.a. the following two aliases: —Shenzhen Sanhe Technology Co., Ltd.; and —Sanhe Semiconductor. Room 605, 6/F, Fa Yuen Commercial Building, 75-77, Fa Yuen Street, Mongkok, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
4Paradigm Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —4Paradigm; —4th Paradigm; and —Fourth Paradigm. Building 1, No. 66 Qinghe Middle Street, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
32Group China Ltd., Room 1905, 19/F, Nam Wo Hong Bldg., 148 Wing Lok Street, Sheung Wang, Hong Kong; and Room 1119, 11/F, Block B, Yau Tong Industrial City, 17 Ko Fai Road, Yau Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 69856, 11/12/15.
54th Research Institute of China, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—China Electronics Technology Group Corp. (CETC) 54th Research Institute;—Communication, Telemetry and Telecontrol Research Institute (CTI); and—Shijiazhuang Communication Observation and Control Technology Institute. | For all items subject to the EAR | See § 744.3(d) of this part | 66 FR 24266, 5/14/01.75 FR 78883, 12/17/10.77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.81 FR 64696, 9/20/16.
A.C. International, Room 1104, North Tower Yueziu City Plaza, No. 445 Dong Feng Zhong Rd., Guangzhou, China | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Academy of Military Medical Sciences, a.k.a., the following one alias:—AMMS. 27 Taiping Road, Haidian District, Beijing, 100850, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Academy of Military Medical Sciences, Field Blood Transfusion Institution, 27 Taiping Road, Haidian District, Beijing, 100850, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Academy of Military Medical Sciences, Institute of Basic Medicine, 27 Taiping Road, Haidian District, Beijing, 100850, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Academy of Military Medical Sciences, Institute of Bioengineering, 20 East Street, Fengtai District, Beijing, China 100071. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Academy of Military Medical Sciences, Institute of Disease Control and Prevention, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Disease Control and Prevention Institute. 20 East Street, Fengtai District, Beijing, China 100071. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Academy of Military Medical Sciences, Institute of Health Service and Medical Information, 27 Taiping Road, Haidian District, Beijing, 100850, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Academy of Military Medical Sciences, Institute of Hygiene and Environmental Medicine, No. 1 Dali Road, Heping District, Tianjin, 300050, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Academy of Military Medical Sciences, Institute of Medical Equipment, 106 Wandong Road, Hedong District, Tianjin, 300162, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Academy of Military Medical Sciences, Institute of Microbiology and Epidemiology, a.k.a, the following one alias:—Institute of Microbial Epidemiology. 20 East Street, Fengtai District, Beijing, 100071, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Academy of Military Medical Sciences, Institute of Radiation and Radiation Medicine, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Institute of Radiation Medicine; and—Institute of Electromagnetic and Particle Radiation Medicine. 27 Taiping Road, Haidian District, Beijing, 100850, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Academy of Military Medical Sciences, Institute of Toxicology and Pharmacology, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Institute of Toxicology and Drugs. 27 Taiping Road, Haidian District, Beijing, 100850, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Academy of Military Medical Sciences, Military Veterinary Research Institute, 666 Liuying West Road, Changchun City, 130122, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
AccoTest Technology Co., Ltd. (Hong Kong), Rm. 211 2/F MIRROR CTR, Tsim Sha Tsui East, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Ace Electronics (HK) Co., Limited, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —ACE (HK) Electronics Technology Co., Ltd; and —Ace Electronic (HK) Co., Ltd. 18F Block B, World Trade Plaza, No. 9 Fuhong Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and E2 Unit, 22/F Kingsway Industrial Building Phase II, 167-175 Wo Yi Hop Road, Kwai Chung, New Territories, Hong Kong; and 9F International Technology Building No. 3007, Shennan Avenue, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and Unit 04 7/F Bright Way Tower, No. 33 Mong Kok Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
ACM Research (Shanghai), a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Shengmei Shanghai; —ACM Shanghai; —Shengmei Semiconductor Equipment (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.; and —ACMSH. Building 4, No. 1690 Cailun Road, Zhangjiang High-Tech Park, Shanghai, China; and 604-1 IC Design Building, No. 33 Xinda Road, Wuxi, China; and About 170 meters northeast of the intersection of Luwu Highway and Xinyuan South Road, Pudong New District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
ACTeam Logistics Ltd., Unit B1-B3, 21/F, Block B, Kong Nam Industrial Building, 603-609 Castle Peak Road, Tsuen Wan, N.T., Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 7359, 2/19/10.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Action Global, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Action Global Co., Limited. C/O Win Sino Flat 12, 9/F, PO Hong Centre, 2 Wang Tung Street, Kowloon Bay, KLN, Hong Kong; and Flat/RM 1510A, 15/F Ho King COMM Ctr, 2-16 Fa Yuen Street, Mongkok KL, Hong Kong (See alternate address under Singapore). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 67062, 10/31/11.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Address 01, Unit D, 16/F One Capital Place, 18 Luard Rd, Wan Chai, Hong Kong. | For items on the CCL and listed in supplement no. 7 to part 746 of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Address 02, Unit 04, 7/F Bright Way Tower, No. 33 Mong Kok Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For items on the CCL and listed in supplement no. 7 to part 746 of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Address 03, Room 19C Lockhart Centre 301-307, Lockhart Rd. Wan Chai, Hong Kong. | For items on the CCL and listed in supplement no. 7 to part 746 of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Address 04, Room 803, Chevalier House 45-51, Chatham Road South, Tsim Sha Tsui, Hong Kong. | For items on the CCL and listed in supplement no. 7 to part 746 of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Address 05, Flat/RM 2309, 23/F, Ho King Commercial Centre, 2-16 Fa Yuen Street, Mong Kok, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For items on the CCL and listed in supplement no. 7 to part 746 of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Address 06, Office 4, 16/F Ho King Commercial Centre, 2-16 Fayuen Street, Hong Kong. | For items on the CCL and listed in supplement no. 7 to part 746 of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Address 07, Room 1318-19, 13F, Hollywood Plaza, 610 Nathan Road, Mong Kok, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For items on the CCL and listed in supplement no. 7 to part 746 of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Address 08, Room 1318-20, 13F, Hollywood Plaza, 610 Nathan Road, Mong Kok Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For items on the CCL and listed in supplement no. 7 to part 746 of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Address 09, Room 1003, 10/F, Lippo Centre Tower 1, 89 Queensway, Admiralty, Hong Kong. | For items on the CCL and EAR99 items listed in supplement no. 7 to part 746 of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Address 10, 7/F MW Tower, 111 Bonham Strand, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong. | For items on the CCL and EAR99 items listed in supplement no. 7 to part 746 of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Address 11, Office 704, 135 Bonham Strand, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong. | For items on the CCL and EAR99 items listed in supplement no. 7 to part 746 of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Address 12, Room 1502, Easey Commercial Building, 253-261 Hennessy Road, Wan Chai, Hong Kong. | For items on the CCL and EAR99 items listed in supplement no. 7 to part 746 of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Address 13, Room 1005, 10/F, Ho King Commercial Center, 2-16 Fayuen St, Mong Kok, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For items on the CCL and EAR99 items listed in supplement no. 7 to part 746 of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Address 14, Room B, 5/F Gaylord Commercial Building, 114-118 Lockhart Road, Wan Chai, Hong Kong. | For items on the CCL and EAR99 items listed in supplement no. 7 to part 746 of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Address 15, Flat 1512, 15/F, Lucky Centre, No. 165-171 Wan Chai Road, Wan Chai, Hong Kong. | For items on the CCL and EAR99 items listed in supplement no. 7 to part 746 of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Address 16, 14C, Hung Shui Kiu Main Street, Yuen Long, N.T., Hong Kong. | For items on the CCL and EAR 99 items listed in supplement no. 7 to part 746 of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
Address 17, Rm. 1605A, Ho King Commercial Center, 2-16 Fa Yuen Street, Mong Kok, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For items on the CCL and EAR99 items listed in supplement no. 7 to part 746 of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
Address 18, Room 1605, Ho King Commercial Center, 2-16 Fa Yuen Street, Mong Kok, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For items on the CCL and EAR 99 items listed in supplement no. 7 to part 746 of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
Advantage Trading Company Limited a.k.a., the following one alias: —Jin Ying Trading Co., Ltd. No. 6 Kin Tai Street, Shop 185 G/F, Hand Wai Industrial Centre, Tuen Mun, New Territories, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 744.8(b), 744.11, 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
AEE Shenzhen Yidian Aviation Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Shenzhen AEE Aviation Technology Co., Ltd.; and —Shenzhen One Electric Aviation Technology Co., Ltd. Floor 18, Building A, Shenzhen International Innovation Center (Futian Technology Plaza), No. 1006 Shennan Avenue, Xintian Community, Huafu Street, Futian District, Shenzhen, China; and 3rd Floor, Building 3, Wanda Industrial Park, West Side of Songbai Highway, Tangtou Community, Shiyan Street, Baoan District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
Aeronautics Computing Technique Research Institute, a.k.a., the following 11 aliases: —AVIC Xi'an Aeronautics Computing Technique Research Institute; —ACTRI; —Aviation Industry Corporation of China Xi'an Institute of Aeronautical Computing; —Aviation Industry Xi'an Institute of Aeronautical Computing Technology; —Xi'an Institute of Aeronautical Computing Technology; —Aviation Industry Computing Institute; —AVIC Computing Institute; —The 631st Research Institute of Aviation Industry Corporation of China; —AVIC 631 Institute; —West Air Computing Technology Research Institute; and —Xihang Institute of Computing Technology. No. 15, Jinye 2 Road, Xi'an, Shaanxi Province, China; and No. 156 Taibai North Road, Beilin District, Xi'an City, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Aerospace Information Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Sciences, a.k.a., the following sixteen aliases: —AIRI; —Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics; —Academy of Aerospace Sciences; —The Institute of Electronics, Chinese Academy of Sciences; —IECAS; —The Institute of Remote Sensing and Digital Earth, Chinese Academy of Sciences; —RADI; —Academy of Optoelectronics, Chinese Academy of Sciences; —AOE; —AIRCAS; —The Center for Earth Observation and Digital Earth, Chinese Academy of Sciences; —CEODE; —The Remote Sensing Satellite Ground Station, Chinese Academy of Sciences; —The Center for Airborne Remote Sensing, Chinese Academy of Sciences; —The Laboratory of Digital Earth Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences; and —CAS Institute of Aerospace Information Innovation. No. 9, Dengzhuang South Road, Beijing, China; and No. 19, North 4th Ring Road, Beijing, China; and Datun Road 3, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China; and CC35, South Jinhuluo Road, Miyun District, Beijing, China; and No. 5, Yanqi East 2nd Road, Beijing, China; and Fenglin Oasis, Datun Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR). This license requirement may be overcome by License Exception GOV under § 740.11(b) when used by the U.S Geological Survey | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Aerospace Star Technology Application Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Aerospace Star Space Technology Application Co., Ltd. No. 70 Jinya Road, Xi'an High-tech Zone, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Aerosun Corporation, No. 188, Tianyuan Middle Road, Jiangning Economic and Technological Development Zone, Nanjing City, Jiangsu Province 211100; and 188 Tianyuan Zhong Road, Jiangning Economic & Technical Area Nanjing, Jiangsu 211100; and No. 3931, Chuansha Road, Wanggang Town, Pudong New Area, Chuansha County, Shanghai 201201; and Building 1, No. 199 Jiangjun Avenue, Jiangning Economic and Technological Development Zone, Nanjing; and No. 9399 Shangchuan Road, South District, Jinqiao Processing Zone, Pudong New District, Shanghai, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
AGCU Scientech, a.k.a. the following two aliases:—AGCU ScienTech Incorporation; and—Wuxi Zhongde Meilian Biotechnology Co., Ltd. No. 18-1, Wenhui Road, Huishan Economic Development Zone, Wuxi City, 214000 China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; Presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
AIF Global Logistics Co., Ltd., 21FL, Room 2110 Number 122 Tiyu East Guangzhou, China; and Room 2501-2508, 25th Floor Hualian Building Number 55 Dongdu Road, Ningbo, 315010, China; and Room 22F 322 Xianxia Road Singular Mansion Shanghai, 200336, China; and Unit A, 13/F JCG Building 16 Mongkok Road Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Workshop C6 28/F TML Tower Number 3 Hoi Shing Road Tsuen Wan N.T., Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Air Force Engineering University, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —China People's Liberation Army Air Force Engineering University; and —AFEU. Changle E Rd., Baqiao Qu, Xian Shi, Shaanxi Sheng, 710015, China; and Jiazi No. 1, Changle Dong (East) Road, Baqiao District, Xi'an, Shaanxi Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Aispeed Industry Ltd., Number 5 Langshan Er Road Hi-Tech Zone, Nanshan, Shenzhen, China; and 10B Jin Cheng GE Jin Tao Yuan Tower, Nanshan, Shenzhen, China; and Room A10 Building A Logan Center Building Haishow Road 23 Baoan, Shenzhen, China; and Room 508 5/F Hewlett Center 54 Hoi Tuen Kwun Tong Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Aksu District Public Security Bureau, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Aqsu District Public Security Bureau. Yingbin Rd., Akesu City XUAR 843000, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Aksu Huafu Textiles Co., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Akesu Huafu; and—Aksu Huafu Dyed Melange Yarn. 992 Kilometers Place Wuka Road, Akesu, China; and Building B 538 Fengting Avenue, Suzhou Jiangsu Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 85 FR 34505, 6/5/20.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Allchips Limited, a.k.a., the following fifteen aliases: —Shenzhen Allchips Co., Ltd; —Allchips Group Limited; —Shenzhen Yingzhicheng Information Technology Co., Ltd; —Shenzhen Yingyuan Zhizao Digital Technology Co., Ltd; —Shenzhen Yingke Digital Technology Co., Ltd; —Shenzhen Xinqiqi Technology Co., Ltd; —Shenzhen Xinwuzhong Technology Co., Ltd; —Zhejiang Yingkepai Digital Technology Co., Ltd; —Shenzhen Yingjie Wisdom Supply Chain Co., Ltd; —Shenzhen Yingjie Technology Co., Ltd; —Shenzhen Forsea Allchips Information & Technology Co., Ltd; —Shenzhen Qianhai Hard City Information Technology Co., Ltd; —Shenzhen Qianhai Yingzhicheng Information Technology Company Limited; —PCBA Online; and —YYFab. 20th Floor, E Times, No. 159 Heng Road, North of Pingji Avenue, Longgang District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and Room 806, 8/F Hang Bong Commercial Centre Jordan, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and 902, Building 3, Shenzhen New Generation Industrial Park, 136 Zhongkang Road, Meidu Community, Meilin Subdistrict, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and Room 1205, 12th Floor, Siu Wai Industrial Building, 29-33 Wing Hong Street, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and No. 51 Lexin Road, Xinmu Community, Pinghu Subdistrict, Longgang District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and 4th Floor, Tower A, Dongsheng Building, No. 8 Zhongguancun East Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Room 1601, No.238, Jiangchang 3rd Road, Jing'an District, Shanghai, China; and Room 301, 3rd Floor, Pinghu Pioneer Park, Zhongxinbao Group, Fuchengao Community, Pinghu Subdistrict, Longgang District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Alliance Electro Tech Co., Limited, 114-118 Lockhart Road, Gaylord Commercial Building, 5th Floor, Room B, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Allparts Trading Co., Ltd., Room 2901B, Bank of Communications, Shenzhen, Futian District, China; and Room 1901H Bank of Communications, Shenzhen, Futian District, China; and Room 803, Chevalier House, 45-51 Chatham Road South, Kowloon, Tsim Sha Tsui, Hong Kong; and 4/F Building 6 Deguan Lighting Factory, No. 2 South 1st Guangzhou, China; and Room 13, 27/F, Ho King Commercial Centre, 2-16 Fa Yuen, Street, Mongkok Kowloon, Hong Kong; and 3 Garden Road Central, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Alpha Trading Investments Limited, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Alpha Trading Investments; and —Alpha Trading Investments Ltd. Unit 617, 6/F Solo Workshops 131-132, Connaught Road West, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Altay Municipality Public Security Bureau, North West Rd., Altay City, XUAR, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Amaze International, Flat/Rm D, 11/F 8 Hart Avenue 8-10 Hart Avenue, Tsim Sha Tsui KL, Hong Kong (See alternate address under Singapore). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 67062, 10/31/11.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Analog Technology Limited, Room A4, 8/F, Block A1 Yau Tong Industrial City, 17 Ko Fai Road, Yau Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Unit 17, 9th Floor, Tower A, Mandarin Plaza, No. 14 Science Museum Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 83, 3/F, Yau Lee Centre, 45 Hoi Yuen Rd., Kwun Tong, Hong Kong; and Room 1302, B Block, Jiahe Huaqiang Building, Zhonghang Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518031, China; and Room 19H, Hangdu Building, Huafu Road, Futian, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518039, China. (See alternate address under India). | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Anhui Cambricon Information Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Anhui Cambrian; —Anhui Cambrian Information Technology; and —Anhui Cambricon. No. 3333 Xiyou Road, High-tech Zone, Hefei City, Anhui Province, China Room 611-194, R&D Center Building, International Intelligent Voice Industrial Park. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Anhui Kehua Sci-Tech Trading Co., Ltd., a.k.a., and the following two aliases: —Anhui Kehua Trading Co., Ltd.; and —Hefei Haoyu Science and Trade Co., Ltd. Room 605, No. 215 Meiling Avenue, Hefei, China; and Room 702, Changhe Science and Technology Innovation Building, 677 Changjiang West Road, Hefei, China; and No. 433, Huangshan Road, Hefei, China; and No. 1, East Third Road, Erxian Bridge, Chengdu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Anvik Technologies Sdn. Bhd., a.k.a., the following eight aliases:—Anvik Technologies;—Cason Technologies;—Henan Electronics;—Hixton Technologies;—Hudson Technologies, Ltd.;—Hudson Engineering (Hong Kong) Ltd.;—Madison Engineering Ltd.; and—Montana Advanced Engineering. Level 19, Two International Finance Centre, 8 Finance Street, Central, Hong Kong (See alternate addresses under Iran and Malaysia). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
AOOK Technology Limited, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —AOOK; and —AOOK Electronics. Rm 803 Chevalier Building 45-51 Chatham Rd S Tsim Sha Tsui Hong Kong; and 2608 Glittery City Shennanzhong Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, China; and 1206 Jiahui New Town, Futian District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 12171, 2/27/23. 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Armyfly, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Beijing Dongtu Junyue Technology;—Beijing Junyue Faixiang Technology; and—Beijing Kyland Junyue Technology. 2nd Floor, Chongxin Creative Building, No. 18 Shixing East Street, Shijingshan Park, Zhongguancun Science Park, Shijingshan District, Beijing, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Arrow Electronics (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd., 2/F and 3/F, Green 18, Phase 2, Hong Kong Science Park, Hong Kong; and 20/F, Tower 2, Evergreen Plaza, 88 Container Port Road, Kwai Chung, Hong Kong; Lot 204, DD105, Castle Peak Road, Yuen Long, Hong Kong; and Unit 1003, Kerry Cargo Center, 55 Wing Kei Road, Kwai Chung, Hong Kong; and Units 11001-11008E & 11001-110012W, 11th Floor, ATL Logistics Centre B, No. 8 Container Port Road South, Kwai Chung, Hong Kong; Unit 5001-5004W, 5th Floor, ATL Logistics Centre A, No. 8 Container Port Road South, Kwai Chung, Hong Kong; and Unit 5015E-5020E, 5th Floor, ATL Logistics Centre B, No. 8 Container Port Road South, Kwai Chung, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48193, 10/9/25. 90 FR 50859, 11/12/25.
Arttronix International (HK) Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Aderal Industrial (HK) Limited. Room 3A 25 Builidng A Zhihui Innovation Center Huashenghui 2nd Qianjin Road, Baoan District, Guangdong, China; and 3/F Building A Datang Industrial Area Guanian Street, Longhua District, Guangdong, Shenzhen, China; and Room 1318-10 13/F Hollywood Plaza 610 Nathan Road Mongkok, Hong Kong; and 15/B 15/F Cheuk Nang Plaza 250 Hennessy Road, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Asia International Trading Company, Room 1104, North Tower Yueziu City Plaza, No. 445 Dong Feng Zhong Rd., Guangzhou, China | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Asia Pacific Links Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Asia Pacific Links Limited. Office 8E and Room E 8/F, Shing Hing Commercial Building, 21-27 Wing Kut Street, Central District, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
Asialink Shanghai Int'l Logistics Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Asialink; and —Asialink; Xi'an Int'l Logistics Co., Ltd. 1128 Tianyueqiao South Road, Building 8, Room 319, Xuhui District, Shanghai, China; and 218 West Tian Mu Road, Kerry Everbright City Tower 1 Offices 2508-2510, Jing'an District, Shanghai, 200070, China; and 3rd Kong Gang West Road, Xi'an Xianyang International Airport Offices 211-212, Kong Gang New Area, XiXian District, Xi'an, Shaanxi,710000, China; and 17 Xinda Road, Building 7, 4th Floor Office 437, Shunyi District, Beijing, 101399, China; and 158 Hangzhong Road, East Tower, Room 1607, Zhabei District, Shanghai, 200070, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Associated Opto-electronics (Chongqing) Co., Ltd., a.k.a., and the following two aliases: —AOE; and —Chongqing Hangwei Optoelectronics Technology Co., Ltd. No. 14, Huayuan Road, Nanping District, Chongqing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
At One Electronics, Unit 614, 6/F Block A, Po Lung Center, No. 11 Wang Chiu Road, Kowloon Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Rm. 311, 3/F, Genplas Industrial Building, 56 Hoi Yuen Rd., Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Aviation Industry Corporation of China 612 Institute, a.k.a. the following three aliases: —Base 014; —China Air-to-Air Missile Research Institute; and —China Airborne Missile Academy. No. 166 Jiefang Road, Xigong District, Luoyang City, Henan Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Aviation International Corporation of China International Simulation Technology Service Co., Ltd., a.k.a. the following one alias: —AVIC International Simulation Technology and Service Co., Ltd. 1001, Building 2, No. 510, Gutai Road, Baoshan District, Shanghai, China; and 5th Floor, Hangfei Building, No. 333, Longteng Road, Songjiang District, Shanghai, China; and Gate 3, No. 3-2, Linxing Street, Nangang District, Harbin, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
AVIC Research Institute for Special Structures of Aeronautical Composites, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —AVIC RISAC; and —AVIC 637th Research Institute. No. 19, Jiqi Road, Jinan, Shandong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Avin Electronics Technology Co., Ltd. (AETC), Room 401, Yuepeng Building, Jiabin Road, Luohu District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and 1019 Jiabin Road, Luohu Qu, Shenzhen Shi, Guangdong, China; and 10F, Kras Asia Industrial Bldg., No. 79 Hung To Road, Kwun Kowloon, Hong Kong, 999077. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 21236, 5/14/19.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Avtex Semiconductor Limited, 1703A, Block C, CEC Building, 2070, Shennan Middle Road, Huaqiang North, Futian District, Shenzhen, 518031, China; and Room 1003A, Fortun Harbor International Center, No. 1084 Baoyuan Road, Xixiang Street, Baoan District, Shenzhen, China; and l 7C Block C, Nr. 2070 Electronic Technology Building, Shennan Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, China; and Building A, Minsheng 2nd Road, Liukeng New Village, Shiyan Street, Baoan District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
AZUP International Group Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Beijing AZUP Scientific Co., Ltd. Rm7-1-1, Langchao Xinxi Building, No. 2 Xinxi Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and 7th Floor, Building C, East District, International Pioneer Park, No. 2 Shangdi Information Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and B1-1422, Huitong Plaza, No. 31 Yuangang Heng Road, Tianhe District, Guangzhou, China; and Room 1602, Building 10, Phase 6, Forte East Lake International, Wuchang District, Wuhan City, China; and Room 1106, Block C, International Apartment, No. 37 Tangyan Road, High-tech Zone, Xi'an City, China; and 300#, Building 1, Shanghai Huigu, No. 641, Tianshan Road, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Babak Jafarpour, a.k.a., the following five aliases:—Bob Jefferson;—Peter Jay;—Sam Lee;—Samson Lee; and—David Lee. Unit 501, 5/F, Global Gateway, 168 Yeung HK Road, Tsuen Wan, Hong Kong; and 9/F, Henan Building, 19 Luard Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong; and Level 19, Two International Finance Centre, 8 Finance Street, Central, Hong Kong (See alternate addresses under Iran and Malaysia). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Bako Cheung, Unit 803, Fourseas Building, 208-212 Nathan Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 803, Fourseas Bldg 208-212 Nathan Rd, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 56003, 9/18/14.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Baoding Giant Import and Export Co., Ltd., Room 905 Fubaoxiuyu Business Building A, No. 77 Fuxing Road, Baoding City, Hebei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.3(d) of the EAR | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Baoding Shimaotong Enterprises Services Co., Ltd., 35 Baihua West Road, New Urban District, Baoding City, Hebei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.3(d) of the EAR | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Baotou Guanghua Chemical Industrial Corporation (Parent Organization: China National Nuclear Group Corporation (CNNC)), a.k.a., the following five aliases:—202 Plant, Baotou Nuclear Energy Facility;—Baotou Guanghua Chemical Industrial Corporation;—Baotou Guanghua Chemical Industry Company;—Baotou Nuclear Fuel Element Plant; and—China Nuclear Baotou Guanghua Chemical Industry Company. 202 Factory Baotou, Inner Mongolia. | For all items subject to the EAR | See § 744.2(d) of this part | 66 FR 24266, 5/14/0175 FR 78883, 12/17/10.81 FR 64696, 9/20/16.
Bayingolin Mongolian Autonomous Prefecture Public Security Bureau, Yingxia Rd., Korla City, XUAR 841000, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Beijing 8 Star International Co., Unit 601, 6th Floor, Tower 1, Prosper Center, No. 5, Guanghua Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 12006, 3/8/16.
Beijing Academy of Artificial Intelligence, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —BAAI; —Zhiyuan Research Institute; —Beijing Zhiyuan Artificial Intelligence Research Institute; and —Zhiyuan. No. 150 Chengfu Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Building 8 No. 1, B201D-1, 3rd Floor, Zhongguancun East Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (Se §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14048, 3/28/25.
Beijing Academy of Quantum Information Sciences, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —BAQIS; —Beijing Institute of Quantum Information Science; and —Beijing Quantum Institute. Building 3, West District, No. 10 Northwest Wangdong Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Building A, International and Regional Collaborative Innovation Center, Zhongguancun Software Park Phase II, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
Beijing Aeronautical Manufacturing Technology Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—BAMTRI; and—Aviation Industry Corporation of China's (AVIC) Institute 625. No. 1 East Military Village, North Baliqiao Station, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China; and No. 1 Dongjunzhuang, Baliqiaobei, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of approval for EAR99; case-by-case review for all items on the CCL | 79 FR 24566, 5/1/14. 83 FR 3580, 1/26/18.
Beijing Aeronautics Yangpu Technology Investment Company (BAYTIC), a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Beijing Aerospace Yangpu Technology Investment Company; and—Tian Hang Yang Pu Technology Investment Limited Company; and—Bei Jing Tian Hang Yang Pu Technology Investment Limited Company. No. 27 Xiaoyun Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100027, China; and Room 3120, Building 1, 16 Zhufang Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 44683, 8/1/14.
Beijing Aerospace Hill Test Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases: —ETS Solutions; —Aerospace Hill; —ETS Solutions (China); —ETC Solutions (China); and —Beijing ETS Solutions Ltd. No. 1, Nandahongmen Road, Beijing, China; and No. 66, Tongdun Street, Suzhou, China; and No. 9, Zhongbei 3rd Street, Tianjin, China; and No. 9, Qianzhao Road, Chongqing, China; and Room 2Q, Changning Building, No. 1, Xinghuo Road, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Beijing Anwise Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Anwise Global. A02, Idea Park, MingJi International Center, No. 35 Da Huang Zhuang, Chao Yang District, Beijing, China; and Room 8112, 8th Floor, Building 3, Yard 30, Shixing Street, Shijingshan District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 25505, 4/11/24.
Beijing BDStar Navigation Co., Ltd. a.k.a. the following one alias: —Beijing Beidou Star Navigation Technology Co., Ltd. No. 7 Fengxian East Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Second Floor, South Building, Beidou Star Building, No. 7 Fengxian East Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and C1, 36 West Ring Road, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
Beijing Biren Technology Development Co., Ltd., Building 13, Room 201, 9th Floor, Wangjing East Area, Zone 4, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 71992, 10/19/23.
Beijing China Aviation Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a. the following five aliases: —BCAT Aviation; —B-CAT; —BCAT; —Beijing Zhongxun Technology Co., Ltd.; and —Stratos. No. 18, Kaixuan Street, Liangxiang District, Fangshan District, Beijing, D3768, China; and No. 18, Cailida Road, Liang Tang Street, Liangxiang District, Fangshan District, Beijing, China; and Beijing Yizhuang Economic and Technological Development Zone No. 29 Council of Hai Second Road Zhongxing Science and Technology Park, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 06/12/23. 89 FR 14405, 2/27/24.
Beijing Cloudmind Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Cloudminds Technologies Co., Ltd.; and—Daxie Technology. Room 601-602, 4A Block, Baiziwan, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100022 China; and Room 220, No. 5, Jiaodao Da St., Fangshan District, Beijing, China; and 33/F, Unit 8, Wanjing Soho, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China; and No. 10 Wangjing Street, Wangjing SOHO Tower 2, Block C, Room 1506, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100096 China; and No. 88 Nongda South Road, Wanlin Building, 2/F, Haidian District, Beijing 100022 China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 34497, 6/5/20.
Beijing Computational Science Research Center, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—BCSRC;—Beijing Computing Science Research Center; and—CSRC. Bldg. 9 East Zone, ZPark II No. 10 East Xibeiwang Road, Beijing, China; and Building 9, East District, Zhongguancun Software Park, No. 10, Northwest Wangdong Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 34497, 6/5/20.
Beijing E-science Co., Ltd., a.k.a, the following alias: —Beijing Yanjing Electronics Co., Ltd. No. 9 Jiuxianqiao East Rd, Chaoyang, Beijing, 100015, China; and A36-2 Huayuan Haidian, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Beijing E-Town Semiconductor Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases: —BEST; —BEST Semiconductor; —Beijing Yitang Semiconductor Technology; and —Yitang Semiconductor. No. 9 Ruihe West 2nd Road, Beijing, China and Building 8, No. 28 Jinghai 2nd Road, Beijing, China; and Rooms 610 and 611, 6th Floor, Main Building, Customs Clearance Service Center, No. 5 Tonghai 1st Road, Xiliu Street Office, Xi'an, China; and No. 601 and 605, Building A, Huaxin Headquarters Base, No. 426 Gaoxin Avenue, Wuhan, China; and Room 706, IC Design Building A 33-2, Xinda Road, Xinwu District, Wuxi, China; and Floor 4-5, Building D, Import and Export Commodity Exhibition and Trading Center, at the intersection of Dongfang Avenue and Dayu Road, Xinzhan District, Hefei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Beijing FJR Optoelectronic Technology Company Ltd, a.k.a, the following three aliases:—FJIR Optoelectronic Technology Company Ltd.;—Beijing Fu Jerry; and—Fu Jirui. No. 2A Zhonghuan South Road, Wangjing, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China, 100102; and Room 302 Office, Bldg. 11, No. 4, Anningzhuang Rd, Beijing, China, 100085; and Beijing Shunyi district airport into 25-4, Huiyuan, 25th floor, 100028, Beijing; and 25-4 Yuhua Rd, 25th Floor, Shunyi District, Beijing, China 101318. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 44849, 7/28/15.
Beijing Foundfresh Technology Co., Ltd, a.k.a. the following two aliases: —Found Fresh; and —Found Fresh Technology. 105-17, First Floor, Building Five, Yard 29, Jinghai Second Road, Beijing Economic and Technological Development Zone, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Beijing Fudan Microelectronics Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Beijing Fudan; and —Beijing Fudan Micro. 423, 4th Floor, No. 1 Qinglong Hutong, Dongcheng District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Beijing Geling Shentong Information Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—DeepGlint; and—Deep Glint International. 1A025, 101, 1st Floor, No. 1, Wangjing East Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China; and Building B, Building 1, Tiandi Linfeng Innovation Industrial Park, 1 Yongtaizhuang North Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Beijing Graphene Institute Co., Ltd, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Beijing Graphene Research Institute; —Beijing Graphene Institute; and —BGI. No. 13, Cui South Ring Road, Sujiatuo Town, Haidian District, Beijing, 100095, China; and No. 13 Cuihu Nanhuan Road, Sujiatuo Town, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and No. 265 Bei-Si-Huan Middle Rd., Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Beijing Guangke Xintu Technology Co., Ltd., No. 22, Ronghua Middle Road, Room 3101, 31F, Building 1, Beijing Economic and Technological Development Zone, Beijing, China and 3101 Floor 31, Building 1, No. 22 Courtyard, Ronghua M. Road, Beijing Economic Technology Development Zone, Beijing 100000 China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Beijing Guoke Tianxun Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Guoke Tianxun; —Tasson; and —Beijing Tasson Technology Ltd. Building 6, Area B, Xinchuang Park, Economic Development Zone, Beijing, China; and Building 6, National Defense Science and Technology Park, Beijing Institute of Technology, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and No. 6 Building BIT Technology PAR No Jia 2 Xisanhuan North Rd., Beijing, China; and 11th Floor, Building 6, National Defense Science and Technology Park, Beijing Institute of Technology, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and 5th Floor, Building B2, Phase I, Hefei Software Park, No. 800 Wangjiang West Road, High-tech Zone, Hefei City, Anhui Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Beijing Guowei Integration Technology Co., Ltd., 10th Floor, Building 1, No. 24, Jiuxianqiao Middle Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Beijing HiFar Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Beijing Huatian Haifeng Technology Co., Ltd. 10F, Unit 3 (Block C), 9th Floor, Building 2, Jinyuan Times Business Center, Landianchang East Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Unit C&D 3F Howming, Factory Building, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Beijing Highlander Digital Technology Co. Ltd, Bldg. 10, No. 7 yard, Dijin Rd., Haidian District, Beijing, China; and C1902, SP Tower, Tsinghua Science Park, Haidian District, Beijing, China. (See alternate address under Singapore). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Beijing Hileed Solutions Co., Ltd., a.k.a, the following three aliases:—Beijing Alite Technologies Co.;—ALCO; and—Beijing Haili Lianhe Keji Youxian Gongsi. A36-2 Xisanqi Huanyuan Haidian District, China; and West of 7/F, A2, No. 9 Jiuxianqiao East Road, Chaoyang Dist., Beijing, China, 100016; and Room 701, Floor 7, Building 2, No. 9 Courtyard, Jiuxianqiao East, Beijing, China; and 12A Beisanhuan Zhong Road, P.O. Box 3042, Beijing, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Beijing Huada Jiutian Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Empyrean; —Huada Empyrean; —Empyrean Technology; —Huada Jiutian; and —BGI Jiutian. 2nd Floor, Building A, No. 2, Lizezhong 2nd Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Beijing Huafeng Electronic Equipment Co., Ltd., 10/F, 2 Bldg., 1# Haiying Rd., Fengtai Dist., Beijing, 100070, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Beijing Huafeng Test & Control Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a. the following three aliases: —AccoTEST; —AccoTEST BU. of Huafeng Test & Control Co., Ltd.; and —HFTC. 101, 102, 103, Floor 5, 1, Building 5, No. 9 Courtyard, Fenghao E. Road, Haidian District, Beijing 100094, China; and Building 5, IC Park, No. 9 Fenghao East Road, Haidian District, Beijing 100094, China; and 17th Floor, Building 2, Qimeng Cross-border Xiangfu Park, No. 116 Xianghong Road, Gongshu District, Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, China; and 1102, Tianan Smart City A3, No. 228 Linghu Avenue, Xinwu District, Wuxi, Jiangsu Province, China; and Room 414, No. 1, 88 Shengrong Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, China; and 1603-1604, Mega Plaza, No. 1027 Changning Road, Changning District, Shanghai, China; and Room A1-309, Tower Building, Ascendas Innovation Park, No. 388 Xinping Street, Suzhou Industrial Park, Jiangsu Province, China; and Room 805, Lianyi Center, No. 83 Mingguang Road, Weiyang District, Xi'an, Shaanxi Province, China; and Shenzhen Software Park, Keji Middle 2nd Road, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Beijing Huanjia Telecommunication Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Beijing Huanjia Communication Co., Ltd. No. 2A Shuangquanpu, Deshengmenwai, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China; and Room 3-012, Building 1, Dahua Radio Instrument Factory, No. 5A Xueyuan Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Beijing Huawei Digital Technologies Co., Ltd., Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29852, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Beijing Innovation Wisdom Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Wisdom Technology. B201C-1, 3rd Floor, Building 8, No. 1, Zhongguancun East Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14048, 3/28/25.
Beijing Institute of Technology, a.k.a., the following nine aliases: —Beijing Institute of Technology, Advanced Technology Institute; —Beijing Institute of Technology, Chongqing Innovation Center; —Beijing Institute of Technology, Chongqing Microelectronics Research Institute; —Beijing Institute of Technology, Lunan Research Institute; —Beijing Institute of Technology, Shenzhen Automotive Research Institute; —Beijing Institute of Technology, Shenzhen Research Institute; —Beijing Institute of Technology, Southeast Research Institute; —Beijing Institute of Technology, Suzhou Research Institute; and —Beijing Institute of Technology, Tangshan Research Institute. No. 5 South Zhongguancun Street, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and 19th floor, Building A, Innovation Plaza, No. 2007 Pingshan Avenue, Pingshan Street, Pingshan District, Shenzhen, China; and A207, Virtual University Park, South District, High-tech Zone, Yuehai Street, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China; and No. 1938 Hanhuang Street, Hanjiang District, Putian City, China; and Unit 2, Building 1, Phase 3, R&D Building, Xiyong Micro-Electric Park, Shapingba District, Chongqing, China; and Building 9, No. 9 Shuguang Road, Longxing Town, Yubei District, Chongqing, China; and Building 5, Software Building, No. 3 Peiyuan Road, Science and Technology High-tech Zone, Suzhou, China; and No. 57 Jianshe Nan Road, Lubei District, Tangshan City, Hebei Province, China; and No. 888 Zhengtai Road, Shandong Province, Tengzhou City, China; and No. 3266 Furong Road, Lige Square, Changqing District, Jinan City, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83421 12/22/20. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22. 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Beijing Iwintall Technology Co. Ltd., a.k.a. the following one alias: —Beijing Yiweixun Tongchuang Technology Co., Ltd. Building CN08, No. 1 Balizhuang Dongli, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China; and Building 6A, No. 3 Yanjing Middle Street, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China; and Room 2108, Floor 21, Building 6A, No. 3 Yanjingli Middle Street, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Beijing Jincheng Huanyu Electronics Co., Ltd., Room 303, Building 7, No. 69, North Third Ring Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and No. 64 Mianshan Road, Mianyang City, Sichuan, China; and No. 11 Jindu Section Airport Road, Chengdu, China; and 302, 3rd Floor, Building 7, No 13 Building, Huayuan Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Rm 7-302, No. Jia 13, Huayuan Road, Haidian, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 34497, 6/5/20.
Beijing Jingyuan Microelectronics Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Zhongke Jingyuan Microelectronics Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd.; and —Casue. No. 156, Jinghai 4th Road, Building 12, 5th Floor, Beijing Economic and Technological Development Zone, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Beijing Kaishitong Semiconductor Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Beijing Kingstone Semiconductor. Floor 1, Building 2, No. 15, Jingsheng South 4th Street, Beijing Economic and Technological Development Zone (Tongzhou), Beijing, China; and 3rd Floor, Block A2, Digital Manor, No. 1 Disheng West Road, Beijing Economic and Technological Development Zone, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Beijing Kevins Technology Development Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Beijing Kvs Science & Tech. Development Co., Ltd. Room A220, Linglong Tiandi, No. 160, West Fourth Ring Road North, Beijing, China; and Room 2206, Yingke Building, Beijing, China; and 1712 & 1715 Zhongkun Plaza, 59 Gaoliangqiaoxiejie Street, Beijing, China; and Unit 1702, No. 59 E Street, Sanshan Building, North Building, Fuzhou, China; and Suite 709710, No. 17 Madian East Road, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
Beijing Keyi Hongyuan Optoelectronics Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —RSLaser; —Beijing RSLaser Photoelectric Technology; and —Beijing RSLaser Opto-Electronics. No. 19, Rongxing North 1st Street, Daxing District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4619, 1/16/25.
Beijing Leike Defense Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Rayco Defense; and —Reco Defense. Floor 6, Building 5, Yard No. 2, West Third Ring North Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and South of Jianhua Road, Jiandong Village, Lijia Town, Wujin District, Changzhou, Jiangsu, China; and 3rd Floor, Building 5, Lu Xun Cultural and Creative Park, No. 6 Yuanda South Street, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Beijing Lingxin Intelligent Technology Co., Ltd., 7th Floor, Building 9, No. 1, Zhongguancun East Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Room 4-1106, 11th Floor, No. 28 Chengfu Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4619, 1/16/25.
Beijing Lion Heart International Trading Company, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Wei Lai Xi Tong Ltd. Suite number 1819, The International Center of Times, Number 101, Shoa Yao Ju BeiLi, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China; and Room 1318-20, 13F, Hollywood Plaza, 610 Nathan Road, Mongkok Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 56003, 9/18/14.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Beijing Liuhe BGI, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Beijing Liuhe Huada Gene Technology. Room 106, Building 1, No. 25, North Taipingzhuang Road, Haidian District, Beijing. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Beijing Luo Luo Technology Development Co., Limited, Room 903, Building 1, No. 4 Wangjing Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.2(d) and 744.3(d) of this part | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Beijing Machinery Industry Automation Research Institute Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Beijing Research Institute of Automation for Machinery Industry; —RAIMB; and —Beizi Institute. No. 113, Xinlong Road, Zhonglou District, Changzhou City, China; and Building 1,6, or 8, No. 1 Jiaochangkou Street, Xicheng District, Beijing, China; and Room 208, 2nd Floor, Building 13, Yard 53, Yangqi Street, Yangqi Economic Development Zone, Huairou District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Beijing Moreget Creative Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Beijing Mojie Innovation Technology Co., Ltd.; —Beijing Moreget Innovation Technology; and —Beijing Moji Innovation Technology Co., Ltd. Room 101, Building 6, Yingfu Road, Beijing, China; and No. 1, Yard 30, Wuquan South Road, Fengtai District, Beijing; and Room 101, Floor 1, Building 14, Baosheng South Road, Beijing, China; and Room 702, Tower B, Austrian International Center, Beijing, China; and Haige Industrial Park, Yard 30, South Wuquan Road, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
Beijing Nanjiang Aerospace Technology Co., Ltd., Room 1104-2, Floor 11, Building 2, No. 19-1, Haidian Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Room 813, Floor 8, Building 2, No. 19-1 Haidian Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 9390, 2/14/23.
Beijing Naura Microelectronics Equipment Co., Ltd., a.k.a. the following five aliases: —Beijing Naura; —Northern Huachuang Microelectronics Equipment; —Beijing Naura Microele Eq Co.; —Beifang Huachuang Microelectronics Equipment; and —Beijing Naura Microelectronics. No. 8, Wenchang Avenue, Beijing Economic and Technological Development Zone, Beijing, China; and No. 1 Jiuxianqiao East Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China; and Room 101, Floor 1 to 4, Building 1, No. 20, Jinshi Road, Mafang Town, Pinggu District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Beijing Naura Semiconductor Equipment Co., Ltd., Room 101, Floor 1 to 4, Building 1, No. 20, Jinshi Road, Mafang Town, Pinggu District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Beijing Opto-Electronics Technology Company, a.k.a., the following one alias:—BOET No. 4, Jiuxianqiao Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China, 100015. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 44849, 7/28/15.
Beijing Plenary Technology Co., Ltd., Room 1002, 10th Floor, Building 7, No. 6 Zhuoxiu North Street, Beijing, China; and Room 710, Building 13th Yard 5T, Yihebei Road, Fangshan District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
Beijing Rageflight Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Beijing Rageflight; —Shangyi Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd.; and —Sunwing Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd. 201-212073, Zone 6, Zhongguancun Science and Technology Park, Beijing, China; and 14th Floor, Shining Building, No. 35 Xueyuan Road, Beijing, China; and Building D, No. 2-2 Shangdi Information Road, Beijing, China; and B306, Solefish Entrepreneurship Park, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
Beijing Ruidakang Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Beijing Ruida Kang Technology Co., Ltd.; and —RuiDaKangDP. Room 301, 3rd Floor, Comprehensive Building, East Courtyard, Houtun Village, Xiaoying Road, Qinghe, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
Beijing Ryan Wende Science and Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a. the following one alias: —Beijing Reiyuan Wende Science and Technology Company Limited. Room 1001, 10th Floor, Building 2 (Longsheng Building B), No. 5, Rongchang East Street, Economic and Technological Development Zone, Beijing, China; and Attachment 7, No. 45 Fang Cao Street, High-tech Zone, Chengdu, China; and Unit 6, Floor 21, Guangdong Asia International Hotel, No. 326, Huanshi East Road, Yuexiu District, Guangzhou, China; and Room 203, Building 10, No. 6251 Shangchuan Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, China; and Room 200, No. 97, Zhongshan Road, Heping District, Shenyang, China; and Room 20, 30th Floor, Unit A, Genesis Plaza, No. 549 Jiefang Avenue, Jianghan District, Wuhan, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Beijing Sensetime Technology Development Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Beijing Shangtang Technology Development Co., Ltd.; and —Sense Time. 5F Block B, Science and Technology Building, Tsing-hua Science Park, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19. 85 FR 34505, 6/5/20. 85 FR 44159, 7/22/20. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22.
Beijing Sevenstar Flowmeter Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Beijing Qixing Flowmeter Co., Ltd. 4S01, 4th Floor, Building 1, No. 8 Wenchang Avenue, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Beijing Sevenstar Integrated Circuit Equipment Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Beijing Qixing Integrated Circuit Equipment Co., Ltd. No. 6 Zhuyuan 3rd Street, Shunyi District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Beijing Shuoke Zhongkexin Electronic Equipment Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —SemiCore ZKX. 1st Floor, Building 1, No. 6, Xingguang 2nd Street, Tongzhou District, Beijing, China and Room 2301, Luguyuyuan Entrepreneurship Building, No. 27 Wenxuan Road, Changsha, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Beijing Sinonet Science & Technology Co., Ltd., Building 5, Courtyard No. 7, Dijin Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Beijing Skyverse Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Beijing Nanolighting Technology Co., Ltd. Room 101-18, Floor 1, Building B1, No. 3 Disheng Middle Road, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Beijing Ti-Tech Science and Technology Development Co., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Beijing Ti-Tech; and —China Ti-Tech Development Co. Ltd. 5F, Building 5 Science and Technology Park, A-2 North Xisanhuan Road, Beijing 100081 China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b), and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 12171, 2/27/23.
Beijing Tianhaida Technology Co., Ltd. No. 9 Fengde East Road, Yongfeng Industrial Base, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Room 4038, 4th Floor, Building 2, Yard 9, Fengde East Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Room 4034, Floor 4, Building 2, Yard 9, Fengde East Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China.; and No. 5011, Commerce, Floor 5, Building A10, Runqianqiujiayuan, Haidian District, Beijing, 100039, China; and Floor 4-5, Building 2, No. 9, Fengde East Road, Yongfeng Industrial Base, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
Beijing Tianhua, a.k.a., the following seventeen aliases:—Beijing Tianhua International Co., Ltd.;—Beijing BUAA Tianhua Technology Company;—Beijing BUAA Tianhua Technology Co., Ltd.;—Beijing Aerospace Technology Limited Liability Company;—Beihang Tenfine Industry Group;—Beijing Beihang Assets Management Co., Ltd.;—Beijing Beihang Science & Technology Co., Ltd.;—Beijing Aerospace Technology LLC;—Beijing North China Aerospace Science & Technology Ltd., Co.;—Beijing North Space Technology Co., Ltd.;—Beijing the Tianhua Easytouch International Trade Co., Ltd.;—North and Astronautics, Beijing China Times Technology Co., Ltd.;—Beijing Beihang Haier Software Co., Ltd.;—Red Technology;—TRW Navigation Communication Technology Co., Ltd.;—Beijing North Aerospace Co-Technology Co., Ltd.; and—Beijing Full Three Dimensional Power Engineering Co., Ltd. 37 Xue Yuan Rd., Beijing, China; and Room 301, 3f Shining Tower, 35 Xue Yuan Lu, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Room 311A, 3f Shining Tower, 35 Xue Yuan Lu, Haidian, Beijing, China; and Room 411A, 4f Shining Tower, 35 Xue Yuan Lu, Haidian, Beijing, China; and Room 401, 4f Shining Tower, 35 Xue Yuan Lu, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Room 402a, 4f Shining Tower, 35 Xue Yuan Lu, Haidian, Beijing, China; and Xueyan Road, Haidian District, Beijing City, 35th Ning Building, Room 402a. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463 12/12/13.87 FR 51877, 8/24/22.
Beijing Tianyi Huiyuan Biotechnology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Tianyi Huiyuan; and —DNA 1953. Building 2, No. 8 Hangfeng Road, Beijing, China | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Beijing Transemic Information Technology Ltd., a.k.a. the following one alias: —Beijing Tianshenghua Information Technology Co., Ltd. Room 433, Section C, 4th Floor, Building 1, 3rd Street, Shangdi Information Industry Base, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Beijing Transemic Technology Ltd., a.k.a. the following one alias: —Beijing Tianshenghua Technology Co., Ltd. Room 2306, Building C, Jinchangan, No. 82, Middle East Fourth Ring Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China; and Room 801, Building C11, No. 219, Tianhua 2nd Road, High-tech Zone, Chengdu, China; and 1st Floor, Building 2, No. 136, Tonghuai Street, Jiangning District, Nanjing, China; and Room 5, 2/F, Phase 2, Xinbao Industrial and Commercial Centre, 116 Ma Tau Kok Road, To Kwa Wan, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Beijing Tsingke Biotech Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Beijing Qingke Biotechnology Co., Ltd.; and —Tsingke Biotechnology Co., Ltd. 6th Floor, Building 3, No. 105, Jinghai 3rd Road, Beijing, China; and Room 401, Building 5, Jinghai 4th Road, Beijing, China; and Xiangneng Building, No. 315, Yinpen South Road, Changsha, China; and Building B, No. 2, Xiyuan 8th Road, Hangzhou, China; and 5th Floor, Building 2, No. 9 Qiande Road, Nanjing, China; and Building 11, Jinan Biopharmaceutical Port (Central District), No. 30766 Jingshidong Road, Jinan, China; and Building 2, Courtyard 5, Gaoxin Fifth Street, Beijing, China; and Building 18, Biopharmaceutical Industry Park, No. 21 Chaoqian Road, Suzhou, China; and Building 2, No. 2440 Pingliang Road, Shanghai, China; and Building 1, No. 33 Jinzhou North Road, Fuzhou, China; and Building 3, No. 6 Xinchuang Road, Tianjin, China; and Building C10, No. 199 Haiyu Middle Line, Haikou, China; and Room 701, Experimental Building, Zhengxin Science and Technology Park, No. 2 Gaohua Road, Nanning, China; and No. 871 Longquan Road, Kunming, China; and B1 Building, Block B, Qingdao Industrial Technology Research Institute, No. 17 Songyuan Road, Qingdao, China; and 5th Floor, Building C, Innovation and Entrepreneurship Center, No. 8989 Shangji Road, Xi'an, China; and Room 201-76, No. 115 Long'an Avenue, Chongqing, China; and Building 4, No. 999 Jiangyue Road, Shanghai, China; and Building 6, No. 9 Gaokeyuan 3rd Road, Wuhan East Lake New Technology Development Zone, Wuhan, China; and Building 1, No. 5 Keyuan South Road, Chengdu, China; and Xiangneng Building, No. 317 Yinpennan Road, Changsha, China; and Building 1, No. 188 Kaiyuan Avenue, Guangzhou, China; and No. E5, Henan University Science and Technology Park, No. 11 Changchun Road, Zhengzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Beijing UniStrong Science & Technology Co., Ltd., Courtyard 8, Kechuang 12th Street, Daxing District Beijing, Beijing, 100176 China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics (BUAA), a.k.a., the following eleven aliases: —Beihang University; —Beihang University Dongying Research Institute; —Beihang University Hangzhou Innovation Institute; —Beihang University Hefei Innovation Institute; —Beihang University Jiangxi Research Institute; —Beihang University Ningbo Innovation Institute; —Beihang University Qingdao Research Institute; —Beihang University Shenzhen Research Institute; —Beihang University Suzhou Innovation Institute; —Beihang University Taizhou Research Institute; and —Beihang University Yunnan Innovation Institute. 37 Xueyuan Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and 393 Songling Road, Laoshan District, Shandong Province, Qingdao City, China; and 8 Shibo Road, Panlong District, Kunming City, China; and 18 Chuanghui Street, Changhe Avenue, Binjiang District, Hangzhou, China; and Group 7, Phase I, 3rd Innovation Base, Kangda Road, Meishan Street, Beilun District, Ningbo, China; and A1 Building, Beihang National University Science Park, 50 meters south of Qianjiang Road, Xinzhan High-tech Zone, Hefei, Anhui, China; and Room B407, Virtual University Park Building, South District, High-tech Zone, Yuehai Street, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China; and Building 1, Science and Technology Innovation Center, High-tech Zone, Nanchang, China; and No.18 Daoyuan Road, Science and Technology City, High-tech Zone, Suzhou, China; and No. 60, Dong 6th Road, Dongying District, Dongying City, China; and Building 9, 99 Haixiu Road, Taizhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 66 FR 24266, 5/14/01. 70 FR 54629, 9/16/05. 75 FR 78877, 12/17/10. 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications (BUPT), a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Hangzhou Research Institute; and —Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Shenzhen Research Institute. No. 10 Xitucheng Rd., Haidian District Beijing 100876, China; and A210, Virtual University Park Building, South District, High-tech Park, Yuehai Street, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China; and 90 Wensan Road, Xihu District, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20. 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Beijing Vision Strategy Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —BVST. Room 509-1, 5th Floor, Building 23, Shangdi Jiayuan, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Room 312, 3rd Floor, Lianchuang Building, No. 2 Dongbeiwang Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Beijing Yuanyin Intelligent Technology Co., Ltd., Room 07-128, 101, 7th Floor, No. 219 Wangfujing Street, Dongcheng District, Beijing, China; and Room 801, 8th Floor, Building 9, No. 1, Zhongguancun East Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4619, 1/16/25.
Beijing Yunze Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Beijing Yunze; —Beijing Yunze Technology Company; and —Yunze Beijing. West of Floor 1, Building 7, Jiajia Garden Courtyard 15, Fengtai Beijing 100000 China; and 201, Floor 2, 36#, Yinhe Garden, Miyun District Beijing 100000 China; and 402, Floor 4, No. 85, Huilongguan W. Street, Changping District Beijing 102200 China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b), and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 12171, 2/27/23.
Beijing Zhengyuan Chuangshi Consulting Co., Ltd., Room 410, 4th floor, Building 3, No. 9 Guang'an Road, Fengtai District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.2(d) and 744.3(d) | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Beijing Zhipu Future Technology Co., Ltd., Room 801, 8th Floor, Building 9, No. 1, Zhongguancun East Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4619, 1/16/25.
Beijing Zhipu Huazhang Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Zhipu AI; and —Beijing Knowledge Atlas Technology Co., Ltd. Floor 10, Building 9, No. 1, Zhongguancun East Road, Haidian District, Beijing, 100080, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4619, 1/16/25.
Beijing Zhipu Linghang Technology Co., Ltd., Room 306-4, 3rd Floor, Building 6, No. 10 Kegu 1st Street, Beijing Economic and Technological Development Zone, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4619, 1/16/25.
Beijing Zhipu Qingyan Technology Co., Ltd., Room 202, 2nd Floor, Building 13, No. 98 Lianshihu West Road, Mentougou District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4619, 1/16/25.
Beijing Zhongdun Security Technology Group Co., Ltd., a.k.a , the following one alias: —Beijing Zhongdun Security Technology Development Co. No. 1, Shouti South Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and No. 1 Capital Gymnasium South Road, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 99703, 12/11/24.
Beijing Zhongke Xin Electronic Equipment, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —ZKX; —Zhongkexin; and —CETC Beijing Zhongke Xin Electronic Equipment. No. 6, Xingguang 2nd Street, Zhongguancun Science and Technology Park, Tongzhou District, Beijing, China and Office Building No. 44, North Gate, No. 20 Fuxing Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Beijing Zhongshang Dingsheng Mechanical and Electrical Equipment Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases: —China Optics Best Technology; —CoBTec Ltd.; —Beijing CBT Optics Equipment Co., Ltd.; and —China Business Dingsheng. No. 1301-02, Floor 13, Building 3, District 1, No. 29 Kechuang 13th Street, Beijing Economic and Technological Development Zone, Beijing, China; and Building 3, No. 1, Tiansha Road, Tangxia Town, Dongguan City, Guangdong Province, China; and Tower 3 of TianTongTai Valley, 13th Street of Kechuang, ETD District, Beijing, 100176, China; and No. 1501-03, Building C, Tiantontai Science and Technology Financial Valley, No. 29, Kechuang 13th Street, Tongzhou District, Beijing, China; and Room 503, Building 8, Timecourt No. 6 Yard Shuguangxili, Beijing, Chaoyang District, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
Belt Consulting Co., Limited., Unit E&F, 13/F Wang Cheong, Commercial Building, No. 249-253 Reclamation St., Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Benico Limited, Valiant Industrial Center, 10th Floor, Room U, Sha Tin, Hong Kong; and 11 On Lai Street, Corporation Park, 6th Floor, Room 617, Sha Tin, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
BGI Research, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —BGI Genomics Institute; —Shenzhen BGI Life Science Research Institute; —Shenzhen Huada Gene Research Inst.; and —Shenzhen Huada Gene Research Institute. Building 11 Beishan Industrial Zone Yantian District, Shenzhen, China, 518085. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
BGI Tech Solutions (Hongkong) Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —BGI Tech Solutions (Hongkong) Co., Ltd.; —Hong Kong Huada Gene Technology Service Co., Ltd.; and —Hong Kong Huada Laboratory Co., Ltd. Tai Po Industrial Estate, 16 Dai Fu St Tai Po, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Bing Lu, Room 804 Sino Center, 582-592 Sino Center Road, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 32445, 6/5/14.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Bion Group Ic Ve Dis Ticaret Limited Sirketi, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Bion Trade Group Limited; and —Bion Group Ltd Sti. Unit 1411, 14/Floor, Cosco Tower 183 Queen's Road Central, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong. (See alternate address under Turkey). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Biznest, LTD, Room 927 9/F Far East Consortium Building, 121 Des Voeux Road C, Central District, Hong Kong; and 4/F, Hong Kong Trade Centre, 161 167 Des Voeux Road, Central, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 44259, 7/25/11.80 FR 69856, 11/12/15.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Blueschip Company Limited, R1811 B Building, Jiahe Tower, No. 3006 Shennan Middle Road, Shenzhen, China 518031; and Room 06 Block A 23/F Hoover Ind Building, 26-38 Kwai Cheong Rd., Kwai Chung N.T., Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Boertala Mongolian Autonomous Prefecture Public Security Bureau, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Bortala Mongolian Autonomous Prefecture Public Security Bureau. Qingdeli St., Bole City, XUAR, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
BOP Opto-Electronics Technology Company, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Beijing BOP Electro-Optics. No. 10, Jiuxianqiao North Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China, 100016; and No. 4 Jiuxianqiao Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China, 100015. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 44849, 7/28/15.
BuyBest Electronic, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Buy Best Electronic Pars; —Buybest Elektronik İthalat İhracat Limited Şirketi; and —Andriman Group İnşaat İthalat İhracat Sanayi Ve Ticaret Limited Şirketi. 1201 Room, Guo Li Building, Zhonghang Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, China. (See alternate addresses under Iran and Turkey.) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
BVI Electronics, B28 10/F Nanfang Da Sha, XIDI Ernalu GangZhou, China 511486; and G/F Far East FAC Building No. 334-336 Kwun Tong road, Kwun Tong Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 32445, 6/5/14.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
C & I Semiconductor Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —China India Semiconductor Co. Ltd. Ko Fai Road Block A1, 8th Floor, Room A4, Yau Tong Industrial City, Kowloon, Hong Kong. (See alternate address under India). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Calvin Law, Flat 2808, 28/F, Asia Trade Centre, 79 Lei Muk Road, Kwai Chung, N.T., Hong Kong; and Units 801-803 and 805, Park Sun Building, No. 97-107 Wo Yi Hop Road, Kwai Chung, N.T., Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 44824, 9/4/18.84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Cambricon (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Cambrian Hong Kong; —Cambrian (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd.; —Cambricon Hong Kong; —Hong Kong Cambrian; and —Hong Kong Cambricon. RM19C Lockhart CTR 301-307, Lockhart Rd. Wan Chai, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Cambricon Jixingge (Nanjing) Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Cambrian Jixingge (Nanjing) Technology Co., Ltd.; —Cambricon Xingge; and —Cambrian Xingge. 100 Tianjiao Road, Qilin Science and Technology Innovation Park, Nanjing, Room 201, 11th Floor, Building A, Qiaomengyuan, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Cambricon (Kunshan) Information Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —Cambrian (Kunshan) Information Technology Co., Ltd.; —Cambricon Kunshan IT; —Cambrian Kunshan IT; —Cambricon Kunshan; —Cambrian Kunshan; —Kunshan Cambricon; and —Kunshan Cambrian. Room 5, No. 232 Yuanfeng Road, Yushan Town, Kunshan City, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Cambricon (Nanjing) Information Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Cambrian Nanjing Information Technology Co., Ltd.; —Cambricon Nanjing IT; —Cambrian Nanjing IT; —Nanjing Cambricon; and —Nanjing Cambrian. Room 201, 11th Floor, Building A, Qiaomengyuan, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China, and No. 100 Tianjiao Road, Qilin Science and Technology Innovation Park, Nanjing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Cambricon Technologies Corporation Limited, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Cambrian; —Cambrian Technologies Corporation; —Cambricon; and —Zhongke Cambricon Technology. Room 1601, 16th Floor, Block D, Zhizhen Building, No. 7 Zhichun Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Floor 11, 13, 14, 15, 16 Block D, No. 7 Zhichun Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Building 1, Lane 2290, Zuchong Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, China; and 1101, 03-09, 1801, 04-06, 2104-06 Building 2 9th Floor, Tower T1, No. 1555, Haigang Avenue, Pudong New Area Shanghai, China; and 888 West Huanhui Road No. 2, Nanhui New Town, Shanghai, China; and 3404-05, 3406-10 3506-10 Block A, Tianxia Jinniu Plaza, No. 8 Taoyuan Road, Nantou Street, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China; and 3506- 10, 35 F Building A Tianxiajin, Shenzhen, China; and 22nd Floor, Building A1, China Sound Valley, No. 3333, Xiyou Road, High-tech Zone, Hefei City, China; and 26th Floor, No. 3 Office Building, Fengyue Yunchuang Center, Junction of Haojing Avenue and Hanchi 1st Road, Fengdong New City, Xi'an, China; and 606, 607, 610, 611, Building A5, No. 266, Changyan Road, Jiangning District, Nanjing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Cambricon (Xi'an) Integrated Circuit Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Cambrian (Xi'an) Integrated Circuit; —Cambricon (Xi'an) IC; —Cambrian (Xi'an) IC; —Xi'an Cambricon; and —Xi'an Cambrian. Xi'an, Fengdong New Town, Xi'an City, Shaanxi Province, 24th Floor, and No. 3 Runjingyiyuan at the Junction of Haojing Avenue and Hanchi 1st Road, Fengdong New City, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Caprice Group Ltd., Room 1119, 11/F, Block B1, Yau Tong Industrial City, 17 Ko Fai Road, Yau Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Unit B1, G/F Pioneer Building, 213 Wai Yip St., Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Unit A, G/F, Pioneer Building, 213 Wai Yip St., Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 69856, 11/12/15.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Center for High Pressure Science and Technology Advanced Research, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—HPSTAR; and;—Beijing High Voltage Science Research Center. No. 1690 Cailun Rd. Shanghai, China; and No. 10, Northeast Wangxi Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and 3rd Floor, Dongrong Building, No. 2699 Qianjin Street, High-Tech Development Zone, Changchun City, Jilin Province, China; and Bldg. 8 East Zone, ZPark II No. 10, East Xibeiwang Road, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 34497, 6/5/20.
Centre Bright Electronics Company Limited, Unit 7A, Nathan Commercial Building 430-436 Nathan Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room D, Block 1, 6/F International Industrial Centre, 2-8 Kwei Tei Street, Shatin New Territories, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 1701, 1/13/10.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
CETC Chip Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —CETC 24; —Sichuan Solid Circuit Research Institute; —CETC 44; —CETC Chongqing Sound and Optoelectronics Co., Ltd.; —Chongqing Optoelectronics Technology Research Institute; —CETC 26; and —Dianke Chip Group. No. 14, Nanping Huayuan Road, Economic and Technological Development Zone, Chongqing, China; and No. 5-12 Yuhan Road, Shuitu Hi-Tech Industrial Zone, Chongqing, China; and No. 23, Xiyong Avenue, Shapingba District, Chongqing, China; and Sichuan Institute of Piezoelec & Acousto-Optic Technology 14#, Chongqing, China; and Room 301, No. 3, Lane 5005, Shenjiang Road, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
CETC Cloud (Beijing) Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases: —CETC Cloud Technology Co., Ltd.; —Dianke Cloud (Beijing) Technology Co., Ltd.; —Dianke Cloud Technology Co., Ltd.; —China Electronic Technology Cloud Corporation; and —CEC Cloud. 4th Floor, Building 3, Yard 30, Jinfu Road, Shijingshan District, Beijing, China; and Building 3, No. 30 Yard, China Electronic Science and Technology Park, Shijingshan District, Beijing, China; and Room 1401, 14th Floor, Building 4, Yard 54, Shijingshan Road, Shijingshan District, Beijing, China; and Building A6, Land Geographic Information Industrial Park, Qixia District, Nanjing, China; and No. 11, Shuangyuan Road, Hi-Tech Park, Shijingshan District, Beijing, China; and 1 Hongtai Yujing Garden on the West Side of Jianshe Street and the North Side of Renhe Street, Luannan County, Hebei Province, Tangshan City, China; and 3103, Building 3, Zizhu, Shangri-La Garden, Fanglinquan Road, Yaohai District, Anhui Province, Hefei City, China; and Room 1016, No. 289, Chengxin Dajiao Road, Xihanggang Street, Shuangliu District, Sichuan Province, Chengdu City, China; and 7th Floor, Unit 1, Innovation Times Plaza, No. 555, North Section of Yizhou Avenue, High-tech Zone, Chengdu, China; and Area A, Jiangsu Geographic Information Industry Park, No. 18 Lingshan North Road, Xianlin Street, Qixia District, Nanjing City, China; and Building 6, Area A, Jiangsu Geographic Information Industry Park, No. 18 Lingshan North Road, Xianlin Street, Qixia District, Nanjing City, China; and Building 3, No. 211 Beiyan Road, Chongming District, Shanghai (Shanghai Chongming Forest Tourism Park), China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
CETC LES Information System Group Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following six aliases: —CLP LES Information System Group Co., Ltd.; —CLP Rice Information System Group Co., Ltd.; —CLP Rice Information System Co., Ltd.; —Electric LES; —CETC LES; and —Electric Coles. No. 1 Alfalfa Garden East Street, Qinhuai District, Nanjing, China; and No. 909, South District, No. 28, Qinhuai District, Nanjing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Ceyear Technologies Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases: —CETC Instrument Co., Ltd.; —CETC Ceyear Technologies Co., Ltd.; and —Zhongdianke Ceyear Technology; —China Electronics Technology Instruments Co., Ltd; and —CETI. No. 98 Xiangjiang Road, Huangdao District, Qingdao, Shandong, China; and Room 606, Floor 6, Building 16, No. 23, Shijingshan Road, Shijingshan District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
Changguang Jizhi Optical Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Zetop. Building 1, No. 3033 Pudong Road, Changchun Economic and Technological Development Zone, Changchun, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Changji Esquel Textile Co. Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Changji Yida Textile. No. 12 Oasis South Road, Changji City, Changji State, Xinjiang (District 55, 2 Hills); and 2 Hill, Area 55, No. 12, Oasis South Road, Changji City, Changji State, Xinjiang. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Changji Hui Autonomous Prefecture Public Security Bureau, 56 Yan'an N Rd., Changji City, XUAR 831100, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Changsha Jingjia Microelectronics Co., Ltd.,902, Building B1, Lugu Science and Technology Innovation Pioneer Park, 1698 Yuelu West Ave., Changsha High-tech Development Zone; and Building 3, Changsha Productivity Promotion Center, No. 2, Lujing Rd., Yuelu District, Changsha City, Hunan Province; and No. 1, Meixihu Road, Yuelu District, Changsha City, Hunan Province, 410221; and Room 1501, Aipu Building, 395 Xinshi North Road, Shijiazhuang City, Hebei Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71560, 12/17/21. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22.
Changsha NetForward Electronic Technology Co. Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Changsha Nanfei Electronic Technology Co., Ltd.; and —Changsha Netforward Electronic Technology Co. Ltd. Room No. 1007, Floor 10, Building No. 3, Huachuang International Square, Section 1, No. 109, Furong M. Road, Wujialing Sub-District, Kaifu Dist, Changsha, Hunan, 410000, China; and Jinxia Future Science and Technology City, Changsha, 410000, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Changsha Zhichun Application Technology Co., Ltd., No. 204, 2nd Floor, Building 1, Peak, Gushan Sports Park, Jinjiachong Road, Wangcheng District, Changsha, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Changzhou Guoguang Data Communications Co., Ltd., Block C, No. 52 Songtao Rd, Zhonglou Economic Development Zone, Changzhou, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Changzhou NetForward Microelectronics Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Changzhou Nanfei Microelectronics Co., Ltd.; and —Changzhou Netforward Microelectronics Co., Ltd. Room 525, No. 18, Xinya Road, Wujin Guojia High-Tech Industrial Development Zone, Changzhou, Jiangsu, 213000, China; and Room 309-1, Floor 3, Building 5, No. 456, Hongcao Road, Xuhui District Shanghai, Shanghai, 200000, China; and 401, 4/F, No. 2, Haidian East 3rd Street, Haidian District, Beijing, 100000, China; and No. 25 Gaoxin North 6 Road, North District Science Park, Shenzhen, 518054, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Changzhou Utek Composite Co., Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias: —CUC. Fuhanyuan 1-812, New North District, Changzhou, 213022, Jiangsu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.3(d) of the EAR | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Channel Rich Electronics Company Limited, Unit 803, Fourseas Building, 208-212 Nathan Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 803, Fourseas Bldg 208-212 Nathan Rd, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 56003, 9/18/14.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Check IC Solution Limited, 2-16 Fa Yuen Street, Ho King Commercial Building, 10th Floor, Room 1005, Mong Kok, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Chen Qu, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Chen Choo No. 4 Nanhuan Road, Jinzhou City, Hubei Province, China | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16. 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
Chen Zhouqian, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Zhou Qian. Room 1811, B Bldg., Jiahe Tower, No. 3006 Shennan Middle Rd., Shenzhen, China; and Room 06 Blk A 23/F Hoover Ind. Bldg., 26-38 Kwai Cheong Rd., Kwai Chung N.T., Hong Kong; and Unit 614, 6/F., Blk. A, Po Lung Ctr., No.11 Wang Chiu Road, Kowloon Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Rm. 311, 3/F, Genplas Industrial Bldg., 56 Hoi Yuen Rd., Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and No. 11 Wang Chiu Road Unit 614A 6F Po Lung Centre, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Chengdu Aircraft Design and Research Institute, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —611 Research and Design Institute; —AVIC Chengdu Aircraft Design Institute; —China Aviation Planning, Design and Research Institute; —AVIC Chengdu Aircraft Design; and —Beijing Zhongsheng Science. No. 12 Dewai Street, Xicheng District, Beijing, 100130, China; and Wuhouci Street, Chengdu, China; and No. 800 Keyuan South Second Rd. High Tech Zone, Chengdu, China; and No. 31 Zizhuyuan Rd., Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Chengdu Beizhan Electronics Co., Ltd., a.k.a, the following two aliases: —Chengdu Beizhang Electronics Co.; and —Chengdu North China Electronics Co., Ltd. Rm. 203, Yifu Building, University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, No. 4, Section 2 North Jianshe Road, Chengdu, 610054, China; and No. 923, Bin Fen/Bifen Holiday International, Building No 2, Baisi Street, Qing Yang District, Chengdu, 610054, China; and Room 906, Block B, Oaks Plaza, No. 666, Jincheng Avenue, High-tech Zone, Chengdu, 610054, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14405, 2/27/24.
Chengdu Day Communication Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Chengdu Huari Communication Technology Co., Ltd. No. 130, Wuxing 4th Road, Wuhou District, Chengdu, Sichuan, China; and No. 6 East Sect. 3 Wuke Road, Chengdu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
Chengdu Fine Optical Engineering Research Center, No 3 Keyuan, 1st Road, Chengdu Hi-Tech Zone, Chengdu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 34497, 6/5/20.
Chengdu GaStone Technology Co., Ltd. (CGTC), a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Chengdu Jiashi Technology Co.;—Chengdu HiWafer Semiconductor;—Chengdu Haiwei Technology; and—Chengdu Zenith. 31F, A Tower, Yanlord Square, No. 1, Section 2, Renmind South Road, Chengdu China; and Internet of Things Industrial Park Economic Development District Xinan Hangkonggang (Southwest Airport), Shuangliu County, Chengdu; and 29th Floor, Yanlord Landmark, No. 1 Renmin South Road Section 2, Chengdu; and 29/F Yanlord Landmark Tower A, Chengdu, China; and Union Road, No 88 Internet of Things Industrial, Chengdu, China; and No 88 Wulian Road, Southwest Airp Development Zone, Chengdu, China; and Industrial Park of Internet of Thing SW Airport Eco Dev Zone, Chengdu, China; and Internet Things of Industrial Pa Southwest Airport Economic, Chengdu, China; and The Industrial Park of Internet of Things, Southwest Airport Economic Development Zone, Chengdu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 44683, 8/1/14. 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16. 83 FR 37427, 8/1/18.
Chengdu Haiguang Integrated Circuit, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Hygon; and —Chengdu Haiguang Jincheng Dianlu Sheji. China (Sichuan) Free Trade Zone, No. 22-31, 11th Floor, E5, Tianfu Software Park, No. 1366, Middle Section of Tianfu Avenue, Chengdu High-tech Zone, Chengdu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 29373, 6/24/19. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22.
Chengdu Haiguang Microelectronics Technology, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —HMC; and —Chengdu Haiguang Wei Dianzi Jishu. China (Sichuan) Free Trade Zone, No. 23-32, 12th Floor, E5, Tianfu Software Park, No. 1366, Middle Section of Tianfu Avenue, Chengdu High-tech Zone, Chengdu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 29373, 6/24/19. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22.
Chengdu Huada Jiutianke Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Chengdu Huada; and —Chengdu Empyrean. No. 518, Guoxin Avenue, Shuangliu District, Chengdu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Chengdu Huawei High-Tech Investment Co., Ltd., Chengdu, Sichuan, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29852, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Chengdu Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., Chengdu, Sichuan, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29852, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Chengdu Jingxin Technology Co. Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Chengdu Jingxin Teck Inc. 118 Jitai 5th Road, Building 3, 8th Floor, Room 5, Chengdu High-Tech Zone, China Pilot Free Trade Zone, Chengdu, Sichuan, 610000, China; and 5th Street, Jingrong Start-Up Hub, Tianfu, Chengdu, Sichuan, 610000, China; and No. 97 Shiren N. Road, Floor 2, Qingyang District, Chengdu, Sichuan, 610014, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Chengdu Latest Electronics Technology Company, No. 2069 West Yuanda Road, Pixian Modern Industry Harbor South District, Chengdu, Sichuan, China 611730; and Suite 1-6-1702, West Diaoyu Yaijia Garden, Haidian District, Beijing, China 100142; and C8-1-402 Xiduan Zhonghua Century city, Technology Road, Xian, China 710075; and 2-308 No. 115 Hongshan Road, Nanjing, China 210018. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 24565, 5/1/14.
Chengdu NetForward Microelectronics Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Chengdu Nanfei Microelectronics Co., Ltd.; and —Chengdu Netforward Microelectronics Co., Ltd., No. Ol-02-202204056 Auxiliary, No. 733, Hupan Road East Section, Xinglong Sub-District, Tianfu New District, China Pilot Free Trade Zone, Chengdu, Sichuan, 610000, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Chengdu Poyotencon Technology, No. 175, Shanbanqiao Road, Chenghua District, Chengdu City, Sichuan Province, China; and Number 508 1-4-1302, East Second Section of Second Ring Road, Chenghua District, Chengdu City, Sichuan Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 06/14/23. 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
Chengdu RML Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Chengdu Thunderbolt Micro Power Technology Co., Ltd.; and —RML Technology. No. 19, Section 4, Huafu Avenue, Chengdu, China; and Shiyang Industrial Park, No. 288, Yixin Avenue, Chengdu, China; and the First Floor, Jinhe Hotel, 18 Jinhe Road, Chengdu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 561, 1/6/25.
Chengdu Skyverse Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Chengdu Nanolighting Technology Co., Ltd., Room 1307, Floor 13, Unit 1, Building 1, No. 99 Tianfu 2nd Street, Chengdu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Chengdu Spaceon Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Tianao Electronics Co., Ltd. No. 88 Xinye Road, West High Tech Zone, Chengdu, China; and Spaceon Building, No. 1 Wulidun Road, Chadianzi, Chengdu, China; and Tianao Building, No. 1 Wulidun Road, Chadianzi, Chengdu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 3580, 1/26/18.
Chengdu Suanze Technology Co., Ltd., No. 401 (attached to No. A54), 4th Floor, Unit 1, Building 4, No. 1700, North Section of Tianfu Avenue, Chengdu High-tech Zone, China (Sichuan) Pilot Free Trade Zone, Sichuan Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4622, 1/16/25.
Chengdu Xiwu Security System Alliance Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Chengdu Xiwuxinan Intelligent System Co., Ltd.; and—XWSESA. No. 7, Section 4, Renmin South Road, Wuhou District, Chengdu, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Chengdu Yaguang Electronics Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Chengdu Yaguang; —Chengdu OPTO Electronics Co., Ltd.; and —970 Factory. No. 66, Donghong Road, Chengdu, China; and No. 36, Beisen Road, Chengdu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 561, 1/6/25.
Chengdu Zongheng Automation Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following six aliases: —JOUAV; —Zongheng Automation Technology Co., Ltd.; —Zongheng Co., Ltd.; —Chengdu JOUAV Automation Tech Co.,Ltd.; —Zongheng Technology; and —Chengdu JOUAV Dapeng Tech Co., Ltd. Floor 11, Area A, Building 3, Jingronghui, No. 200, Tianfu 5th Street, High-Tech Zone, Chengdu, China; and 7th Floor, Area A, Building 6, No. 200, Tianfu 5th Street, Chengdu High-Tech Zone, Pilot Free Trade Zone, Chengdu, China; and Room 801-805, Floor 8, Area A, Building 3, No. 200, Tianfu 5th Street, Chengdu High-Tech Zone, Pilot Free Trade Zone, Chengdu, China; and Room 3a, Area A, Jingrong International Plaza, No. 200, Tianfu 5th Street, Wuhou District, Chengdu, Sichuan Province, China; and Unit 701-702,7/F, Grand Tech Centre, No. 8 On Ping Street, Shatin, Hong Kong; and 6A-7F, Jingrong Intl Plaza, 5th Tianfu St., No. 200 Hi-Tech District, Chengdu City, China; and 3A-8F, Jingrong Innovation Hub No 200, 5th Tianfu St., Chengdu, 610041, China; and Building No. 9, Huafu Avenue, 4th Section, No.777, Chengdu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
China Academy of Electronics and Information Technology, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—CAEIT; and—CETC CAEIT. 11 Shuangyuan Road, Badachu High-Tech Park, Shijingshan District, Beijing, China. (See alternative address under United Kingdom.) | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
China Academy of Launch Vehicle Technology Beijing Institute of Precision Mechatronics Control Equipment, a.k.a., the following eight aliases: —Beijing Institute of Precision Mechatronics Control Equipment; —Beijing Precision Electrical Control Equipment Research Institute; —Beijing Precision Mechanical and Electrical Control Equipment Research Institute; —CALT Beijing Institute of Precision Mechatronics Control Equipment; —Beijing Research Institute of Precision Mechatronics and Controls, CALT; —Beijing Research Institute of Precision Mechatronics and Controls; —CALT-18; and —Beijing Precision Electromecha. No. 1, Dahongmen Road, Fengtai District, Beijing, China; and No. 1, Nanda Red Gate No. 1, Fengtai District, Beijing Municipal District, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
China Academy of Science—Shenyang Institute of Automation, No. 114 Nanta Street, Shenyang, Liaoning, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
China Academy of Space Technology 502 Research Institute, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—502 Research Institute;—Beijing Institute of Control Engineering; and—BICE. No. 31 Zhongguancun Nan Street, Beijing, China; and No. 16 South 3rd Street, Zhonggu, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 51877, 8/24/22.
China Academy of Space Technology 513 Research Institute, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—513 Research Institute;—Shandong Institute of Space Electronic Technology; and—SISET. No. 513 Spaceflight Road, High-Tech Zone, Shandong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 51877, 8/24/22.
China Aerodynamics Research and Development Center (CARDC). Sichuan Province. | For all items subject to the EAR | See § 744.3 of this part | 64 FR 28910, 5/28/99.81 FR 64696, 9/20/16.
China Aeronautical Radio Electronics Research Institute, a.k.a., the following 26 aliases: —615th Institute; —615 Institute; —Shanghai 615 Research Institute; —Off-Power Station; —Power Office; —Shanghai Aviation Electronics; —China Aviation Radio Electronics Research Institute; —AVIC Radio Electronics Research Institute; —Shanghai Aviation Electronics Company; —CAVIONICS; —Longzhi Aviation Electric; —National Aeronautical Radio Electronics Research Institute; —Institute of Aeronautical and Radio Electronics; —China Aviation Radio Electronics Research Institute; —Shanghai Avionics Company; —China Institute of Aeronautics Radio Electronics; —AVIC 615; —Lairene Institute; —Aviation Industry Institute of Electrical and Electronics Industries; —Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineering; —Institute of Electric Power; —Electricity Institute; —Aeronautical Radio; —China Aero Radio; —China Aeronautical Radio; and —China Aeronautics Radio. No. 432 Ziyue Road, Minhang District, Shanghai China; and No. 432 Gui Ping Road, Shanghai, China; and No. 599 Zixing Road, Shanghai, China; and A14 Tiantan Dongli Zhongqu Dongcheng District, Beijing, China; and 666 Zixing Road, Min Hang District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
China Aerospace Science and Industry Corporation Second Academy, a.k.a., the following eight aliases, and thirteen subordinate institutions:—China Changfeng Mechanics and Electronics Technology Academy;—China Chang Feng Mechano-Electronic Engineering Academy;—CASIC Second Academy;—China Chang Feng Mechano-Electronic Engineering Company;—CASIC Academy of Defense Technology;—Second Research Academy of CASIC;—Changfeng Electromechanical Technology Design Institute; and—China Chang Feng Mechanics and Electronics Technology Academy.Subordinate institutionSecond Design Department, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Beijing Institute of Electronics Systems Engineering; and—Second Planning Department.Subordinate institution23rd Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Beijing Institute of Radio Measurement; and—BIRM.Subordinate institution25th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Beijing Institute of Remote Sensing Equipment. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 37427, 8/1/18.
Subordinate institution201 Research Institute, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Aerospace Science and Technology Defense Technology Research and Experimental Center.Subordinate institution203rd Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Beijing Radio Measurement and Testing Institute; and—Beijing Institute of Radio Metrology and Measurement.Subordinate institution204th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Beijing Institute of Computer Applications and Simulation Technology; and—706th Research Institute.Subordinate institution206th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Beijing Institute of Mechanical Equipment; and—Beijing Institute of Machinery and Equipment.Subordinate institution207th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Beijing Guangda Optoelectronics;—Beijing Institute of Environmental Features; and—Beijing Institute of Environmental Characteristics.
Subordinate institution208th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Beijing Electronic Document Service Center.Subordinate institution210th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Xian Changfeng Electromechanical Institute.Subordinate institution283 Factory, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Beijing Xinfeng Machinery Factory.Subordinate institution284 Factory, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Beijing Changfeng Machinery Factory; and—Beijing Changfeng Xinlian Project Management.Subordinate institution699 Factory, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Beijing Xinli Machinery Factory.
The following addresses apply to the entity and to the thirteen subordinate institutions: 50 Yongding Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and 51 Yongding Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and 52 Yongding Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and 58 Yongding Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and 90 Dianzi Road, Section One, Xian, China.
China Aerospace Science and Industry Corporation (CASIC) 3rd Academy, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—China Haiying Electro-Mechanical Technology Academy (CHETA);—HiWING Mechanical & Electrical Technology Corporation; and—Beijing HY Electronic Tech Co. No. 1 Haiying Rd, Fengtai Technology District, Tower 1, 7/F, Beijing; and F/5 #5 BLDG Hangtian Haiying Tech No 1 Kaiying Rd, Feng Tai District, Beijing 100089; and No. 11, Hepingli East Street, Dongcheng District, Beijing; and P.O. Box 7200-80, Beijing 100074 | For all items subject to the EAR | See § 744.3(d) of this part | 66 FR 24267, 5/14/01. 75 FR 78883, 12/17/10. 77 FR 58006, 9/19/12. 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
China Aerospace Science and Industry Corporation (CASIC) 3rd Academy's 159 Factory, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—159th Factory; and—Beijing Xinghang Electromechanical Equipment Factory. No. 9, DongWangzuo North Road, Yungang, Fengtai District, Beijing, 100074 | For all items subject to the EAR | See § 744.3(d) of this part | 66 FR 24267, 5/14/01. 75 FR 78883, 12/17/10. 77 FR 58006, 9/19/12. 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
China Aerospace Science and Industry Corporation (CASIC) 3rd Academy's 239 Factory, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—239th Factory; and—Beijing Hangxing Machinery Manufacturing Corporation., Ltd. No. 11 Hepingli East Street, Dongcheng District, Beijing 100013 | For all items subject to the EAR | See § 744.3(d) of this part | 66 FR 24267, 5/14/01. 75 FR 78883, 12/17/10. 77 FR 58006, 9/19/12. 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
China Aerospace Science and Industry Corporation (CASIC) 3rd Academy, 31 Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—31st Institute; and—Beijing Power Machinery Institute. No. 17, Yungang West Road, Fengtai District, Beijing | For all items subject to the EAR | See § 744.3(d) of this part | 66 FR 24266, 5/14/01. 75 FR 78877, 12/17/10. 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
China Aerospace Science and Industry Corporation (CASIC) 3rd Academy, 33 Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—33rd Institute; and—Beijing Automation Control Equipment Institute (BACEI). No. 1, Yungang Beili, Fengtai District, Beijing 100074 | For all items subject to the EAR | See § 744.3(d) of this part | 66 FR 24266, 5/14/01. 75 FR 78883, 12/17/10. 77 FR 58006, 9/19/12. 81 FR 64696, 9/20/16. 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
China Aerospace Science and Industry Corporation (CASIC) 3rd Academy, 35 Research Institute, a.k.a, the following two aliases:—35th Institute; and—Huahang Institute of Radio Measurement No. 3 South Street, Hepingli East Road, Dongcheng, Beijing, 100013 | For all items subject to the EAR | See § 744.3(d) of this part | 66 FR 24266, 5/14/01. 75 FR 78883, 12/17/10. 77 FR 58006, 9/19/12. 81 FR 64696, 9/20/16. 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation (CASC) 1st Academy 12 Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Beijing Aerospace Automatic Control Institute (BICD); and—12th Institute 51 Yong Ding Road, Beijing; and No. 50 Yongding Road, Haidian District, Beijing 100854 | For all items subject to the EAR | See § 744.3 of this part | 64 FR 28909, 5/28/99. 75 FR 78883, 12/17/10. 77 FR 58006, 9/19/12. 81 FR 64696, 9/20/16. 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation (CASC) 1st Academy 702 Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—702nd Institute; and—Beijing Institute of Structure and Environmental Engineering (BISE) No. 30 Wanyuan Road, Beijing | For all items subject to the EAR | See § 744.3 of this part | 64 FR 28909, 5/28/99. 75 FR 78877, 12/17/10. 81 FR 64696, 9/20/16. 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation (CASC) 1st Academy First Design Department, a.k.a., the following one alias:—1st General Design Department 1 South Dahongmen Road, Fengtai District, Beijing 100076 | For all items subject to the EAR | See § 744.3(d) of this part | 66 FR 24266, 5/14/01. 75 FR 78883, 12/17/10. 77 FR 58006, 9/19/12. 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation (CASC) 8th Academy, and the following three aliases:—Shanghai Academy of Spaceflight Technology (SAST);—Shanghai Institute of Space; and—MOA#8 Academy Shanghai Spaceflight Tower, 222 Cao Xi Road, Shanghai, 200233; and No. 3888 Yuanjiang Road, Minhang District, Shanghai 201109; and No. 2965 Dongchuan Rd Minhang District Shanghai, China | For all items subject to the EAR | See § 744.3 of this part | 64 FR 28909, 5/28/99. 75 FR 78877, 12/17/10. 81 FR 64696, 9/20/16. 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation (CASC) 8th Academy 811 Research Institute, and the following two aliases:—811th Institute; and—Shanghai Institute of Space Power Sources 388 Cang Wu Road, Shanghai; and 2965 Dongchuan Road, Minhang District, Shanghai 200245 | For all items subject to the EAR | See § 744.3 of this part | 64 FR 28909, 5/28/99. 75 FR 78883, 12/17/10. 77 FR 58006, 9/19/12. 81 FR 64696, 9/20/16. 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation (CASC) 9th Academy 13 Research Institute, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—13th Institute;—Beijing Institute of Aerospace Control Devices (BIACD);—230 Factory; and—Beijing Aerospace Times Optical-Electronic Technology Co., Ltd No. 1 Fengying East Road, Haidian District, Beijing 100094 | For all items subject to the EAR | See § 744.3(d) of this part | 66 FR 24265, 5/14/01. 75 FR 78877, 12/17/10. 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation (CASC) 9th Academy 771 Research Institute, a.k.a., the following five aliases:—Xi'an Institute of Microelectronics;—Xi'an Microelectronics Technology Institute;—XMTI;—771 Research Institute; and—Lishan Microelectronics Company. No. 198 Taibai South Road, Shaanxi, China; and No. 198 Taibai Nan Road, Xian, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 51877, 8/24/22.
China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation (CASC) 9th Academy 772 Research Institute, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —772 Research Institute; —Beijing Institute of Microelectronics Technology; —Beijing Microelectronics Technology Institute; and —BMTI. No. 2, Siyingmen North Road, Donggaodi, Fengtai District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 51877, 8/24/22. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22.
China Aviation Development Harbin Bearing Co., Ltd., a.k.a. the following three aliases: —AVIC Harbin Bearing; —Harbin AVIC Bearing Co Ltd; and —AviChina Harbin Bearing. No. 888 Nanjing Road, Hulan District, Harbin (New District Trust Handling Area), China; and No. 81, East Wujinnan Road, Xilong Street, Harbin, China; and North Side of Traffic Management Office, Linxi County, Xingtai City, Hebei Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 40085, 6/21/23.
China Communications Construction Company Dredging Group Co. Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—CCCC Dredging (Group); and—CCCC Dredging. Zhongjiao Building, Block A Desheng, International Beijing, 100088 China; and Room 201, 1296 Xuchang Road, Yangpu District, Shanghai, China; and China Communications Building, Block A, Desheng International, No. 85 Deshengmenwai Street, Xicheng District, Beijing, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
China Communications Construction Company Guangzhou Waterway Bureau, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—CCCC Guangzhou Waterway Bureau; and—CCCC Guangzhou Dredging Company. 29th Floor, No. 298 Lijiao Road, Haizhu District, Guangzhou, China; and No. 298, Lijiao Road, Haizhu District, Guangzhou, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
China Communications Construction Company Ltd., No. 85 Deshengmenwai St. Xicheng District, Beijing 100088, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China Communications Construction Company Second Navigation Engineering Bureau, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—CCCC Second Navigation Engineering Bureau;—China Communications Second Navigation Engineering Bureau; and—CCCC Second Aviation Engineering Bureau. 11 Jinyinhu Road, Dongxihu District, Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
China Communications Construction Company Shanghai Waterway Bureau, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—CCCC Shanghai Waterway Bureau; and—CCCC Shanghai Dredging Company. No. 13, Zhongshan East First Road, Huangpu District, Shanghai, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
China Communications Construction Company Tianjin Waterway Bureau, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—CCCC Tianjin Waterway Bureau; and—CCCC Tianjin Dredging Company. Building 9, Shipping Service Center, Yuejin Road, Tianjin Port Free; and No.41 Taierzhuang Road, Hexi District, Tianjin. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation, 7th Research Institute (CETC-7), a.k.a., the following one alias:—Guangzhou Institute of Communications. No. 381, Xingang Middle Road, Haizhu District, Guangzhou, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
China Electronic Technology Group Corporation No. 11 Research Institute, a.k.a, the following three aliases, including the named subordinate institutions:—North China Research Institute of Electro-Optics (NCRIEO);—China North Research Institute of Electro-Optics; and—CETC 11th Research Institute (CETC 11th RI).Subordinate institution Beijing Laiyin Company Ltd, a.k.a., the following one alias,—Beijing North China Lai Yin Opto-Electronics Technology Company.Subordinate Institution: China Electronics Technology Corporation (CETC) Infrared Engineering and Technology Company, a.k.a., the following one alias:—CETC Infrared or CETC IR. No. 10, Jiuxianqiao North Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China, 100016; and No. 4 Jiuxianqiao Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China, 100015; and Electronic City of Zhong Guan Cun Technical Zone, Beijing, China, 100015. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 44849, 7/28/15.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 13th Research Institute (CETC 13), a.k.a., the following six aliases: —Hebei Semiconductor Research Institute; —HSRI; —Hebei Institute of Semiconductors; —Hebei Semiconductor Institute; —Hebei Semiconductor; and —CETC Research Institute 13. 113 Hezuo Road, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China; and 21 Changsheng Street, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China; and 21 Changsheng Road, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e). | 83 FR 37427, 8/1/18. 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 13th Research Institute (CETC 13) subordinate institution: Bowei Integrated Circuits, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Hebei Bowei Integrated; —Hebei Bowel Technology; and —Shijuang Bowei. 113 Hezuo Road, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China; and 21 Changsheng Street, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China; and 21 Changsheng Road, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China; and Shijiazhuang New and Hi-Tech Dev Zone, Hebei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 37427, 8/1/18. 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 13th Research Institute (CETC 13) subordinate institution: Envoltek, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Hebei Envoltek Electronics. 21 Changsheng Street, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China; and 21 Changsheng Road, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 37427, 8/1/18. 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 13th Research Institute (CETC 13) subordinate institution: —Hebei Brightway International, 21 Changsheng Street, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China; and 21 Changsheng Road, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 37427, 8/1/18. 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 13th Research Institute (CETC 13) subordinate institution: Hebei Medicines Health, 113 Hezuo Road, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 37427, 8/1/18. 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 13th Research Institute (CETC 13) subordinate institution: Hebei Poshing Electronics, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Hebei Poshing Electronics —Hebei Poshing Elec.; and —Hubei Poshing Electronics. 113 Hezuo Road, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China; and 21 Changsheng Street, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China; and 21 Changsheng Road, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 37427, 8/1/18. 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 13th Research Institute (CETC 13) subordinate institution: Hebei Puxing Electronic, 113 Hezuo Road, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China; and 21 Changsheng Street, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China; and 21 Changsheng Road, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 37427, 8/1/18. 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 13th Research Institute (CETC 13) subordinate institution: Hebei Sinopack Electronics, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Hebei Sinapack Elec. 113 Hezuo Road, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China; and 21 Changsheng Street, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China; and 21 Changsheng Road, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 37427, 8/1/18. 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 13th Research Institute (CETC 13) subordinate institution: Micro Electronic Technology, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Micro Electronic Technology Development Application Corp; —METDA; and —METDAC. 113 Hezuo Road, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e). | 83 FR 37427, 8/1/18. 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 13th Research Institute (CETC 13) subordinate institution: MT Microsystems, 113 Hezuo Road, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 37427, 8/1/18. 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 13th Research Institute (CETC 13) subordinate institution: North China Integrated Circuit Corporation, 21 Changsheng Street, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China; and 21 Changsheng Road, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China; and 113 Hezuo Road, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 37427, 8/1/18. 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 13th Research Institute (CETC 13) subordinate institution: Shijiazhuang Development Zone Maiteda Microelectronics Technology Development and Application Corporation, 21 Changsheng Street, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China; and 21 Changsheng Road, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 37427, 8/1/18. 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 13th Research Institute (CETC 13) subordinate institution: Tonghui Electronics, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Tonghui Electronics Technology. 21 Changsheng Street, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China; and 21 Changsheng Road, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 37427, 8/1/18. 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 14th Research Institute (CETC 14), a.k.a., the following seven aliases, and two subordinate institutions:—Nanjing Research Institute of Electronics Technology;—NRIET;—Nanjing Electronics Technology Institute;—Ministry of Information Industry Electronics;—No 14 Research Institute;—Research Institute 14; and—CETC Research Institute 14.Subordinate institutionNanjing SunSea Industry Corporation.Subordinate institutionNanjing Institute of Radio Technology.The following addresses apply to the entity and the two subordinate institutions: No 1 Dinghuaimen, Nanjing, China; and No 8 Guorui Road, Yuhua District, Nanjing, China; and No 4 Guping Gang, Nanjing, China; and 52 Huju Road, North, Nanjing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 37427, 8/1/18.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 16th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —CETC 16; and —Hefei Institute of Low-Temperature Electronics. No. 439 Suixi Road, Luyang District, Hefei China; and No. 658, Wangjiang West Road, Hefei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 29 (CETC 29) Research Institute, a.k.a., the following ten aliases:—CETC 29th Research Institute;—China Southwest Electronic Equipment Research Institute (SWIEE);—29 (SIWEI Co) Institute;—SIWI Electronics Corporation;—Chengdu SIWI Electronics Inc.;—Chengdu SIWEI Electronics Company;—Chengdu 29 Institute;—Si Wei Company 29th Institute;—SIWI Group; and—Southwest China Institute of Electronics No. 496 West Yingkang Road, Chengdu, Sichuan Province 610036, China; and Box #429, #1 Waixichadianziheng Street, Chengdu, Sichuan Province 610036, China; and 5 Cheng Wen Road, Chengdu, China 610036; and No.3 Research Department, Zhongdian, China; and No. 29 Institute, Waixi Chadi, Chengdu, China; and No.81 BaiChao Road, XiPu Town, PiXian County, Chengdu, China; and Siwei Electron Mansion, Xiejiasi, Qingyang, Chengdu, China; and 1 Hengjie Chadianzi Western Suburb, Chengdu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 44680, 8/1/14.80 FR 69856, 11/12/15.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation, 30th Research Institute (CETC-30), a.k.a., the following one alias:—Southwest Communication Research Institute. No. 6, Chuangyue Road, High-Tech Zone of Xiaojiahe Street, Chengdu, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 32nd Research Institute, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —CETC 32; —CETC Digital Technology (Group) Co., Ltd.; and —East China Institute of Computing Technology No. 63 Chengliu Highway, Jiading District, Shanghai, China; and No. 1485, Jialuo Road, Jiading District, Shanghai, China; and Room 812, Bank of East Asia No. 66 Huayuan Shiqiao Road, Pudong, Shanghai, China; and Room 220, Second Floor, 101, 1st to 3rd floors, Building 5, No. 7 Rongda Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 36th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —CETC 36; —CTRONICS Technology Group; and —Jiangnan Electronic Communications Research Institute (JNECR). No. 387, Hongxing Road, Jiaxing, China; and Box 9, Jiaxing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 38th Research Institute (CETC 38), a.k.a., the following seven aliases, and seven subordinate institutions:—Hefei Institute of Electronic Engineering;—Southwest China Research Institute of Radar Technology;—East China Research Institute of Electronic Engineering;—ECRIEE;—No 38 Research Institute;—Research Institute 38; and—CETC Research Institute 38.Subordinate institutionAnhui Sun-Create Electronics.Subordinate institutionAnhui Bowei Chang An Electronics.Subordinate institutionECU Electronic Industrial.Subordinate institutionHefei ECU-TAMURA Electric.Subordinate institutionAnhui Bowei Guangcheng Information Technology.Subordinate institutionAnhui Bowei Ruida Electronics Technology.Subordinate institution Brainware Terahertz. The following addresses apply to the entity and to the seven subordinate institutions: 199 Xiangzhang Ave., Hefei, Anhui, China; and 19 He Huan Lu, Hefei, China; and 19 Hehuan Road, Hefei, China; and 260 Ji Xi Road, Hefei, China; and 88 Pihe Road, Hefei, China; and Forward Road, Economics Development Zone of Luan, Luan, Anhui, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 37427, 8/1/18.85 FR 34497, 6/5/20.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 41st Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —CETC 41; and —East China Institute of Electronic Measuring Instruments. No. 726, Changzheng Road, Bengbu, China; and No. 98, Xiangjiang Road, Huangdao District, Qingdao, China; and No. 800, Changsheng Road, Bengbu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 43 Research Institute, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—East China Research Institute of Microelectronics;—ECRIM; and—CETC 43. No. 19, Hehuan Road, High-tech Zone, Hefei City, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 51877, 8/24/22.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 45th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —CETC 45; —Beijing Semiconductor Special Equipment Research Institute; and —Beijing CETC Electronic Equipment Co., Ltd. No. 1, Taihe 3rd Street, Tongzhou District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 48th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following one alias: —CETC 48 Institute. No. 1025, Xinkaipu Road, Tianxin District, Changsha City, Hunan, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 9390, 2/14/23.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 52nd Research Institute, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —CETC 52; —CETHIK Group; and —China Electronics Technology HIK Group Co., Ltd. 198 Aicheng Street, Wuchang Avenue, Yuhang District, Hangzhou; and No. 36, Macheng Road, Xihu District, Hangzhou; and No. 1500, Wenyi West Road, Yuhang District; and No. 9 Lixin Road, Qinghai Lake, Hangzhou; and No. 9 Wenfu Road, Hangzhou, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 55th Research Institute (CETC55), a.k.a., the following three aliases, and three subordinate institutions:—Nanjing Electronic Devices Institute;—CETC Research Institute 55; and—NEDI. 524 Zhongzhan East Road, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China; and 524 East Zhongshan Road, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China; and 523 East Zhongshang Road, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China; and 166 Middle Zhenghang Road, Nanjing, China; and 166 Zhengfang Mid Road, Nanjing, China; and 166 Zhengfang Mid Road, Nanjing, China; and Huaxia Sci and Tech Park Hi-Tech Development, Nanjing, China; and RM 2105 Huaxia Bldg., No 81 Zhongshan Rd., Nanjing, China; and 8 Xingwen Road, Economic and Tech, Nanjing, China.Subordinate institutionNanjing Guosheng Electronics, 8 Xingwen Road, Economic and Tech, Nanjing, China; and 166 Middle Zhenghang Road, Nanjing, China; and 166 Zhengfang Mid Road, Nanjing, China; and 166 Zhengfand Mid Road, Nanjing, China; and 168 Zhengfand Mid Road, Nanjing, China; and 165 Zhangfang Mid-Road, Nanjing, China; and 414 South Zhong Shan Road, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China; andSubordinate institutionNanjing Guobo Electronic, 166 Zhengfang Mid Road, Nanjing, China.Subordinate institutionNEDITEK, a.k.a, the following three aliases:—NEDI Technology;—NTESY; and—Nanjing Nade Technology. 2nd Floor, B4 Block, Jiulonghui Park, No. 19 Suyuan Avenue, Nanjing, China; and 524 Zhongzhan East Road, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China; and 524 East Zhongshan Road, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China; and 523 East Zhongshang Road, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China; and 166 Middle Zhenghang Road, Nanjing, China; and 166 Zhengfang Mid Road, Nanjing, China; and 166 Zhengfang Mid Road, Nanjing, China; and Huaxia Sci and Tech Park Hi-Tech Development, Nanjing, China; and RM 2105 Huaxia Bldg., No 81 Zhongshan Rd., Nanjing, China; and 8 Xingwen Road, Economic and Tech, Nanjing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 37427, 8/1/18.85 FR 34497, 6/5/20.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 58 Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Wuxi Microelectronics Research Center; and—CETC 58. No. 777 Jianzhu West Road, Wuxi City, China, and No. 5 Huihe Road, Wuxi City, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 51877, 8/24/22.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation Electronic Equipment Group Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —CETC Equipment Subgroup; —Dianke Equipment; and —CETC-E. Room 2001, Floor 20, Building B, Building 1, No. 19 Ronghua Middle Road, Beijing Economic and Technological Development Zone, Beijing, China; and 7th Floor, West Annex Building, Building 1, Nord Center, No. 128 South Fourth Ring West Road, Fengtai District, Beijing, China; and 7/F, West Wing of No.1 Noble Center, 128 West Road of South 4th Ring Road., Fengtai District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation No. 28 Institute, a.k.a., the following eight aliases: —The 28th Research Institute of China Electronics Technology Group Corporation; —28th Research Institute of China Electronics Technology Group Corporation; —CETC 28; —CETC28; —The 28th Institute; —Nanjing Institute of Electronic Engineering; —NRIEE; and —NIEE. Houbiaoying Rd., Bai Xia Qu, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China, 210095; and No. 99, Houbiaoying Road, Qinhuai District, Jiangsu Province, Nanjing City, China; and 1-2 Alfalfa Garden East Street, Jiangsu Province, Nanjing City, China and No. 1 Yongzhi Road, Qinhuai District, Nanjing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
China General Nuclear Power Corporation (CGNPC), a.k.a., the following one alias:—China Guangdong Nuclear Power Corporation South Building, CGN Tower, 2002 Shennan Boulevard, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, China; and 1001 Shangbuzhong Road, Shenzhen Sci & Tech Building, Shenzhen, China | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
China General Nuclear Power Group, South Building, CGN Tower, 2002 Shennan Boulevard, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, China | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
China HEAD Aerospace Technology Co., a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —China HEAD; —China HEAD Technology Co; —HEAD Aerospace; —HEAD Aerospace Group; —HEAD Aerospace Netherlands; —HEAD France; and —HEAD Technology France. 5F, Bldg 5, Science and Technology Park, A-2 North Xisanhuan Road, Haidian District, Beijing 100081, P.R. China; and Room 01, floor 13, building 5, no. A2 courtyard, west 3rd ring r. Beijing, 10004-8, China; and B-11a-02 Keshi Plaza 28 Shangdi Xinxi Rd Beijing 100058 China. (See alternate address under France and Netherlands). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b), and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 12171, 2/27/23.
China Jiuyuan Trading Corporation, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—China Long Term Material Trading Company;—China Long-Standing Material Trading Company; and—China Jiuyuan High-Tech Equipment Company. 64 Mianshan Road, Mianyang City, Sichuan, China; and No 169, West Section, Yihuan Road, Chengdu, China; and No. 11 Jindu Section Airport Road, Chengdu, China; and Rm. 302 Genfang International, No. A13, Huayuan Rd., Haidian, Beijing, China; and 8 Huayuan Road, Haidian District Beijing; and 6 Huayuan Road, Haidian District Beijing; and 1 Fenghao East Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 34497, 6/5/20.
China National Scientific Instruments and Materials (CNSIM), a.k.a. the following four aliases:—CSIMC;—China National Scientific Instruments and Materials Corporation;—China Scientific Equipment Co., Ltd.; and—Sinopharm Equipment. Building 1, No. 19, Taiyanggong Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100028, China; and 20 Chichunlu Road, Beijing, China; and 12 Caixiangdong Road, Beijing, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; Presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China Nuclear Power Technology Research Institute Co. Ltd., 47 F/A Jiangsu Building, Yitian Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, 518026, China | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
China Shengshi International Trade Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Hong Kong Development Group. 21 Jianshe Road, Yufeng Building Room 313B, Xitou Xincun District 3, Longhua District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. (See alternate address under United Kingdom). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
China State Shipbuilding Corp.—Systems Engineering Research Institute, No. 16 Cuiwei Rd., Haidian Dist, Beijing 100036; and No. 5 Yuetan North St, Xicheng Dist, Beijing. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited (CSSC) 7th Research Academy, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd. (CSIC) 7th Research Academy; and—China Ship Research and Development Academy. No. 2 Shuangquan Baojia, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited (CSSC) 12th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd. (CSIC) 12th Research Institute; and—Thermal Processing Technology Research Institute, a.k.a., Hot Working Technology Research Institute. Xicheng District, Xiping, Shaanxi Province; and Mailbox No. 44, Xingping, Shaanxi Province, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited (CSSC) 701st Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd. (CSIC) 701st Research Institute; and—China Ship Design and Research Center. No. 268 Ziyang Road, Wuchang District, Wuhan, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited (CSSC) 702nd Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd. (CSIC) 702nd Research Institute; and—China Ship Scientific Research Center (CSSRC). No. 222 Shanshui East Road, Binhu District, Wuxi, Jiangsu Province, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited (CSSC) 703rd Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd. (CSIC) 703rd Research Institute; and—Harbin Marine Boiler and Turbine Research Institute. No. 35 Honghu Road, Daoli District, Harbin; and No. 108 Hongqi Avenue, Xiangfang District, Harbin, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited (CSSC) 704th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd. (CSIC) 704th Research Institute; and—Shanghai Marine Equipment Research Institute (SMERI). No. 10 Hengshan Road, Xuhui District, Shanghai, China; and No. 160 Xinpan Road, Shanghai, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited (CSSC) 705th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd. (CSIC) 705th Research Institute; and—Xi 'an Precision Machinery Research Institute. No. 18, Gaoxin 1st Road, High-tech Development Zone, Xi'an, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited (CSSC) 707th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd. (CSIC) 707th Research Institute; and—Tianjin Navigational Instrument Research Institute. No. 268, Dingzigu 1st Road, Hongqiao District, Tianjin, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited (CSSC) 709th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd. (CSIC) 709th Research Institute; and—Wuhan Digital Engineering Institute. No. 718, Luoyu Road, Hongshan District, Wuhan, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited (CSSC) 710th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd. (CSIC) 710th Research Institute; and—Yichang Testing Technology Research Institute a.k.a. Yichang Institute of Testing Technology. No. 58 Shengli 3rd Road, Yichang, Hubei Province, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited (CSSC) 711th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd. (CSIC) 711th Research Institute; and—Shanghai Marine Diesel Engine Research Institute. No. 3111 Huaning Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited (CSSC) 712th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd. (CSIC) 712th Research Institute; and—Wuhan Marine Electric Propulsion Equipment Research Institute. Nanhu Garden City, Hongshan District, Wuhan City, Hubei Province; and Nanhu Steam School Courtyard, Wuchang District, Wuhan, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited (CSSC) 713th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd. (CSIC) 713th Research Institute; and—Zhengzhou Institute of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering. No. 126 Jingguang Middle Road, Zhengzhou, Henan Province, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited (CSSC) 714th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd. (CSIC) 714th Research Institute; and—Ship Information Research Center. No. 2, Shuangquan Baojia, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited (CSSC) 715th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd. (CSIC) 715th Research Institute; and—Hangzhou Institute of Applied Acoustics. No. 715, Pingfeng Street, Xihu District, Hangzhou, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited (CSSC) 716th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd. (CSIC) 716th Research Institute; and—Jiangsu Institute of Automation. No. 18, Shenghu Road, Lianyungang, Jiangsu Province, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited (CSSC) 717th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd. (CSIC) 717th Research Institute;—Huazhong Institute of Optoelectronics Technology; and—Huazhong Photoelectric Technology Research Institute. No. 981, Xiongchu Street, Hongshan District, Wuhan, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited (CSSC) 718th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd. (CSIC) 718th Research Institute; and—Handan Purification Equipment Research Institute. No. 17 Zhanhan Road, Handan, Hebei Province, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited (CSSC) 719th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd. (CSIC) 719th Research Institute; and—Wuhan Second Ship Design Research Institute. No. 19, Yangqiaohu Avenue, Zanglong Island Development Zone, Jiangxia District, Wuhan, Hubei Province; and No. 450 Zhongshan Road, Wuchang District, Wuhan, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited. (CSSC) 722nd Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Limited. (CSIC) 722 Institute; and—Wuhan Ship Communication Research Institute. No. 312 Luoyu Road, Hongshan District, Wuhan, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 08/27/20.85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited (CSSC) 723rd Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd. (CSIC) 723rd Research Institute; and—Yangzhou Marine Electronic Instrument Research Institute. No. 26, Nanhexia, Guangling District, Yangzhou, Jiangsu Province, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited (CSSC) 724th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd. (CSIC) 724th Research Institute; and—Nanjing Ship Radar Research Institute. No. 30, Changqing Street, Jiangning District, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, China; and No. 346 Zhongshan North Road, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited (CSSC) 725th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd. (CSIC) 725th Research Institute; and—Luoyang Institute of Ship Materials. No.169, Binhe South Road, Luolong District, Luoyang, Henan Province, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited (CSSC) 726th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd. (CSIC) 726th Research Institute; and—Shanghai Ship Electronic Equipment Research Institute. No. 5200 Jindu Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited (CSSC) 750th Test Center, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd. (CSIC) 750th Test Center; and—Kunming Marine Equipment Research and Test Center. No. 3, Renmin East Road, Panlong District, Kunming, Yunnan Province, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20. 86 FR 29193, 6/1/21.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation, Limited (CSSC) 760th Research Institute, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—China Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd. (CSIC) 760th Research Institute;—Dalian Institute of Measurement and Control Technology; and—Dalian Scientific Test and Control Institute. No. 16 Binhai Street, Zhongshan District, Dalian, Liaoning Province, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
China Taly Aviation Technologies Corporation, a.k.a. the following two aliases: —China Taly; and —China Tianli Aviation Technology Industrial Co., Ltd. 7 Da Cheng Road Feng Tai District, Beijing, China; and No. 7 Dacheng Road, Fengtai District, Beijing, China; and No. 56 Zhi Chun Road, Haidian District, Beijing China Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
China Tech Hi Industry Import and Export Corporation, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—CTHC; and—Tianhang Industry Import and Export Company. 30 Haidian Road, Beijing, China; and No A 16 Zao Jun Miao, Haidian, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 37427, 8/1/18.
China Volant Industry a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Volinco; and—China Huateng Industry. 30 Haidian Road, Beijing, China; and Room 703, 7th Floor, Building 1, No 11, Changchunqiao Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 37427, 8/1/18.
China Xinshidai Company, a.k.a., the following one alias: —China New Era Group Xinshidai Plaza, Plaza No. 7 Huayuan Rd., Beijing, China | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 36202, 6/26/14.
Chinese Academy of Engineering Physics, a.k.a., the following seventeen aliases:—Ninth Academy;—Southwest Computing Center;—Southwest Institute of Applied Electronics;—Southwest Institute of Chemical Materials;—Southwest Institute of Electronic Engineering;—Southwest Institute of Environmental Testing;—Southwest Institute of Explosives and Chemical Engineering;—Southwest Institute of Fluid Physics;—Southwest Institute of General Designing and Assembly;—Southwest Institute of Machining Technology;—Southwest Institute of Materials;—Southwest Institute of Nuclear Physics and Chemistry (a.k.a., China Academy of Engineering Physics (CAEP)'s 902 Institute);—Southwest Institute of Research and Applications of Special Materials Factory;—Southwest Institute of Structural Mechanics; (all of preceding located in or near Mianyang, Sichuan Province)—The High Power Laser Laboratory, Shanghai;—The Institute of Applied Physics and Computational Mathematics, Beijing. 901 Institute (P.O. Box 523 Chengdu, 610003) and 64 Mianshan Road, Mianyang, Sichuan, China; and 6 Huayuan Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and; 1 Fenghao East Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 62 FR 35334, 6/30/97.66 FR 24266, 5/14/01.75 FR 78883, 12/17/10.76 FR 21628, 4/18/11.76 FR 50407, 8/15/11.77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.85 FR 34497, 6/5/20.
Chinese Academy of Science, Center for Excellence in Quantum Information and Quantum Physics, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Collaborative Innovation Center for Frontiers of Quantum Information and Quantum Technology; —Quantum Innovation Institute; and —Quantum 2011. No. 96, Jinzhai Road, Hefei, China; and Wangjiang West Road, Shushan District, Hefei, China; and No. 62, Taihu Road, Baohe District, Hefei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
Chinese Academy of Sciences Changchun Institute of Optics, Fine Mechanics, and Physics, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Changchun Institute of Optics, Fine Mechanics, and Physics, CAS; —CAS Institute of Optics, Fine Mechanics, and Physics; and —CIOMP. 3888 E Nanhu Road, Changchun, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 561, 1/6/25.
Chinese Academy of Sciences Institute of Computing Technology, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Institute of Computing Technology Chinese Academy of Sciences; —Institute of Computing Technology; —CAS ICT; and —ICT CAS. No. 6, South Academy of Sciences Road, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing, China and No. 6 Kexueyuan South Road, Zhongguaneun, Haidian District, Beijing, China and No. 6 Kexueyuan South Road, Zhonggu, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Chinese Academy of Sciences Institute of Microelectronics, a.k.a., the following 6 aliases: —CAS IME; —IME CAS; —IMECAS; —CAS Institute of Microelectronics; —CAS Microelectronics Institute; and —Institute of Microelectronics of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. #3 Beitucheng West Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China; and No. 3, North Tucheng West Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.4(a)(9), 734.9(e)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) 5 | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Institute of Physics, a.k.a., the following one alias: —IOPCAS. No. 8, Zhongguancun South Third Street, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and No. 8, Zhongguancun South 3rd Street, between the 3rd and 4th rings of Zhongguancun Street, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and No. 5, Xizai Road, Huairou District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Key Laboratory for Quantum Information, a.k.a., the following one alias: —KLQI. East District, University of Science and Technology of China, No. 96, Jinzhai Road, Baohe District, Hefei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
Chinese Academy of Sciences, National Time Service Center, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —NTSC; —NTS; and —Shaanxi Astronomical Observatory of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. No. 3, Shuyuan East Road, Xi'an Shaanxi, 710600, China; and P.O. Box 18, Lintong District, Xi'an, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Chinese Academy of Sciences' Shanghai Institute of Microsystem and Information Technology, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —SIMIT; —Shanghai Institute of Metallurgy; and —SIMIT-CAS. Building 8, No. 865, Changning Road, Changning District, Shanghai, China; and Building A, No. 1455, Pingcheng Road, Jiading District, Shanghai, China; and Jiading Park, No. 235, Chengbei Road, China; and No. 800, Yishan Road, Xuhui District, Shanghai, China; and Room 613, Building 8, No 865 Changning Road, Shanghai, China; and Room 604, Xinweijiayuan, 1455 Pincheng Road, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
Chinese Academy of Sciences Technology and Engineering Center for Space Utilization, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —CAS Technology and Engineering Center for Space Utilization; —CSU; —CSU CAS; and —Space Application Center. No. 9, Deng Zhuang South Rd., Hai Dian Dist, Beijing, 100094, China; and No. 9, Dengzhuang South Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Chinese Flight Test Establishment, a.k.a. the following six aliases: —630 Institute of China Aeronautical Research Institute; —Aviation Industry Test Flight Center; —AVIC Flight Test Center; —CFTE; —China CFTE; and —Yanliang Test Flight Institute. 8th Testing Flying Courtyard Road, Yanliang District, Xi'an City, Shaanxi Province, China; and CFTE Rd Yanliang District, Xi'an, China; and Renmin Road, Yanliang District, Xi'an City, Shaanxi Province, China; and Hong91 Building 357 Unit 39, Xi'an City, China; and No. 8 Shifeiyuan Road, Yanliang District, Xi'an, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Chipgoo Electronics Limited, a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —Chipgoo; —Chipgoo Technology; —Endezo Technology (Hong Kong) Limited; —Endezo Technology; —Endezo; —Shenzhen Yindezhou Technology Co., Ltd.; and —Shenzhen Yindezhou Technology. Unit 318 (WL602), 3rd Floor, Sunbeam Centre, 27 Shing Yip St, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Rm A29, 24th Floor, Regent's Park Prince Industrial Building, 706 Prince Edward Rd. East, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 13, 27/F, Ho King Commercial Center, 2-16 Fa Yuen Street, Mong Kok, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room G, 26th Floor, Hangdu Building, No. 1006 Haufu Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, China; and Room 1223, New Asia Guoli Building, Zhonghang Road, Huaqiang North Subdistrict, Futian, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Chipwinone Electronics Co., Limited, R1618, B Building, Jiahe Tower, No. 3006 Shennan Middle Road, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Chitron Electronics Company Ltd, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Chi-Chuang Electronics Company Ltd (Chitron-Shenzhen). 2127 Sungang Rd, Huatong Bldg, 19/F, Louhu Dist, Shenzhen, China 518001; and 169 Fucheng Rd, Fenggu Bldg., 7/F, Mianyang, China 621000; and Zhi Chun Rd, No 2 Bldg of Hoajing jiayuan, Suite #804, Haidian Dist, Beijing, China 100086; and 40 North Chang'an Rd, Xi'an Electronics Plaza Suite #516, Xi'an, China 710061; and 9 Huapu Rd, Chengbei Electronics & Apparatus Mall, 1/F Suite #39, Chengdu, China 610081; and 2 North Linping Rd Bldg 1. Suite #1706, Hongkou Dist, Shanghai, China 200086; and 6 Shing Yip St. Prosperity Plaza 26/F, Suite #06, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 1701, 1/13/10.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Cho-Man Wong, Room 2608, Technology Plaza 29-35 Sha Tsui Road Tsuen Wan, Hong Kong; and Unit 803, Fourseas Building, 208-212 Nathan Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 803, Fourseas Bldg 208-212 Nathan Rd, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 63184, 10/12/11.79 FR 56003, 9/18/14.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Chong Zhou, Room 602, Building No. 4, Jimen East, Haidian District, Beijing 100081. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
Chongqing Chuandong Shipbuilding Industry Co Ltd., Shuanghekou, Lidu Town, Fuling District, Chongqing, China 408102. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
Chongqing Southwest Integrated Circuit Design Co., Ltd., a.k.a., and the following two aliases: —SWID; and —Chongqing Southwest Integrate. 19th Floor, Unit 2, Building 3, No. 15 Danlong Road, Chongqing, China; and No. 14 Nanping Huayuan Road, Chongqing, China; and Room 202, No. 23, Xiyong Avenue, Shapingba District, Chongqing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Chongxin Bada Technology Development Co., Ltd., No. 13 Hangfeng Road, Science City, Fengtai, Beijing, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Chuangxinda Electronics-Tech Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—CXDA; and—Chuangxinda Electronics Company Limited. R1811 B Building, Jiahe Tower, No. 3006 Shennan Middle Road, Shenzhen, China 518031; and Unit 614, 6/F., Block A, Po Lung Ctr, No. 11 Wang Chiu Road, Kowloon Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Rm. 311, 3/F, Genplas Industrial Building 56 Hoi Yuen Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and No. 11 Wang Chiu Road Unit 614A 6F Po Lung Centre, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Cinty Int'l (HK) Industry Co., Limited, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Cinty International HK Industry Co. Ltd.; —Cinty Int'l HK Industry Co., Ltd.; —HK Cinty Co., Limited; —Cinty Semiconductor Limited; and —HKCinty Electronics. Rm 3008-3009, Block A, Jiahe Huaqiang Bulding, Shennan Road, Huaqiangbei Neighborhood, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518039, China; and Office No.3, 10/F, Witty Commercial Building, 1A-1L Tung Choi Street, Mong Kok, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Rm 1808, Dynamic World Building, Zhonghang Rd., Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518031, China; and Room 2208, LeiZhen Building, 40 Fuming Rd., Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518031, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
CLC Holdings Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias:—CLC Xpress. Flat 2808, 28/F, Asia Trade Centre, 79 Lei Muk Road, Kwai Chung, N.T., Hong Kong; and Units 801-803 and 805, Park Sun Building, No. 97-107 Wo Yi Hop Road, Kwai Chung, N.T., Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 44824, 9/4/18.84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Cloudmax Tech Co., Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias: —YSX Tech Co., Limited. Room 1316-1318, Metropolitan Heights at Century Place, Du Hui Xuan Building, Zhong Hang Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518031, China; and Room A, 15/F, Goldfield Industrial Building, 144-150 Tai Lin Pai Road, Kwai Chung, Hong Kong; and 2/F, Block 6, No.2 Robot Industrial Park, 8th Road, Yangchung Industrial Zone, Shapu Community, Songgang Subdistrict, Bao'an District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518105, China; and Wonderful Life Building, No. 4 Donghai Rd, Yantian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518083, China; and Ko Fai Industrial Building, No.7 Ko Fai Road, Yau Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and 1/F, Block 1, Zhuguang Chuangxin Technology Park, Zhuguang Road, Xili Subdistrict, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518055, China; and Room 2404, Du Hui Xuan Building, Zhong Hang Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518031, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Cloudminds (Hong Kong) Limited, 10/F Massmutual Twr 33, Lockhart Rd, Wan Chai, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 34497, 6/5/20.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
CloudWalk Technology, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Chongqing Cloudwalk Technology Co., Ltd.;—Guangzhou Yunshang Information Technology Co., Ltd.;—Yun Cong Information Technology Co. Ltd.; and—Yun Cong Technology. 1306 Room, No. 26, Jinlong Road, Nansha District, Guangzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 85 FR 34505, 6/5/20.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
CNOOC Limited (a subsidiary of China National Offshore Oil Corporation), No. 25 Chaoyangmen North Street, Dongcheng District, Beijing, 100010, China; and 65th Floor, Bank of China Tower, 1 Garden Road, Hong Kong. | All items subject to the EAR except for:—crude oil, condensates, aromatics, natural gas liquids, hydrocarbon gas liquids, natural gas plant liquids, refined petroleum products, liquefied natural gas, natural gas, synthetic natural gas, and compressed natural gas under the following Harmonized System (HS) codes: 271111, 2711210000, 2711210000, 2709, 2709002010, 2707, 27075000, 2710, 271019, 271112, 271113, 271114, 271119, 27111990, 271311, 271312, 271012250, 2901, 290511, 2701, 29109020, 29151310, 29155020, 29156050, 29159020, 29161210, 29280025, 29321910, 29362920, 29419030, 2909300000, 2917194500, 2922504500, 2924296000, 2925294500, 2928002500, 2933194350; or—items required for the continued operation of joint ventures with persons from countries in Country Group A:1 in supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR not operating in any body of water, or the airspace above any body of water, within the following coordinates:Upper Left:26°4′48.931″ N104°31′41.383″ EUpper Right:26°4′48.931″ N123°19′22.225″ ELower Right:0°0′0.00″ N123°19′22.225″ ELower Left:0°0′0.00″ N104°31′41.383″ E | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 4864, 1/14/21.87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Comsum Technologies (Group) Ltd., Room 408, Unit 6, Xin Qi Dian Jia Yan, 5 Chang Qiao Road, Beijing, 100089, China; and Room 1005, 10/F Carnarvon Plaza, 20 Carnarvon Road, TST, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Comtel Technology Limited, Building A2-3, Haufeng Industrial Park, Shiyan, Baoan District, Shenzhen, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Connec Electronic Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Suzhou Konecot Electronics; and—Suzhou Ke Nai Ke Te Dianzi Youxian Gongsi. Room 1110, No 168, Fenjiang Road, Mudu Town, Wuzhong District, Suzhou City, China; and 5015 East Shennan Rd, Shenzhen, China; and 10/F., Flat U Valiant Industrial Centre, 2 to 12 Au Pui Wan Street, Hong Kong. (See alternate addresses under United Kingdom). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of Denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22. 87 FR 57082, 9/16/22.
Corad Technology Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Corad Technology (China) Limited. Unit 1306, 13/F, Nanyang Plaza 57 Hung To Road Kwun Tong, Hong Kong; and Room K, 5/F, Winner Factory Building No. 55 Hung To Road Kwun Tong Kowloon, Hong Kong. (See also addresses under Taiwan for this entry, which is listed as Corad Taiwan Representative Office) | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19, 85 FR 83769, 12/23/20. 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Corad Technology (Shenzhen) Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Corad Technology Ltd. (Shenzhen). Rm 0919 1# Xinye Bldg, NO388 Tianlin Road, Shanghai, China 518033. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Corezing International, a.k.a., the following five aliases:—CoreZing Electronics;—Corezing International Group Company;—Corezing International Pte Ltd;—Corezing Technology Pte Ltd; and—Core Zing. Room 1007, Block C2, Galaxy Century Bldg., CaiTian Rd., FuTian District, Shenzhen, China; and Room 1702, Tower B, Honesty Building, Humen, Dongguan, Guangdong, China; and G/F, No. 89, Fuyan Street, Kwun Tong, Hong Kong; and Flat 12, 9F Po Hong Kong, 2 Wang Tung Street, Kowloon Bay, Hong Kong; and Flat/RM B 8/F, Chong Ming Bldg., 72 Cheung Sha Wan Road KL, Hong Kong; and FlatiRM 2309, 23/F, Ho King COMM Center, 2-16 Fa Yuen Street, Mongkok KLN, Hong Kong (See alternate address under Singapore). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 67062, 10/31/11.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
CSIC Pride (Nanjing) Cryogenic Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Pride Cryogenics; —Easycool; and —CSIC Pengli (Nanjing) Ultra-low Temperature Technology Co., Ltd. No. 32 Changqing Street, Jiangning Development Zone, Nanjing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
CSSC Electronic Technology, 40 South Fangcun Main Rd., Liwan District, Guangzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
CSSC Huangpu Wenchong Shipbuilding Co., Ltd., No. 188 Changzhou Road, Huangpu District, Guangzhou, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
Dahua Technology, 807, Block A, Meike Building No. 506, Beijing South Road, New City, Urumqi, Xinjiang, China; 1199 Bin'an Road, Binjiang High-tech Zone, Hangzhou, China; and 6/F, Block A, Dacheng Erya, Huizhan Avenue, Urumqi, China; and No. 1187, Bin'an Road, Binjiang District, Hangzhou City, Zhejiang Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19. 85 FR 44159, 7/22/20. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22.
Dalian Ligong Safety Equipment Company Limited, No. 26 Liaohe East Road, Double D Port, Economic and Technological Development Zone, Dalian, China 116620. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 24565, 5/1/14.
Dennex Enterprises Limited, 2 Ice House Street, Room 303, 3rd Floor, St. George's Building, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.2l(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Detail Technology (HK) Limited, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Ditai Technology; —Shenzhen Ditai Technology Со., Ltd.; —Detail Technology Global Ltd; and —Ditai Keji Xianggang Youxian Gongsi. Room 2309, 23/F, Но King Commercial Center, 16 Fayuen Street, Mongkok Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room F, 11th Floor, Hainiog Plaza, Langhua District, Shenzhen, China; and Room F, Floor 11, Longhua District, Shenzhen City, GuangDong, Province, China; and 10F, Kras Asia Industrial Building, No. 79 Hung to Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
DGT Technology (HK) Co., Limited, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —DGT Technology HK Co., Limited; and —DGT Technology. Room 5303, SEG Plaza, Huaqiang North Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518027, China; and Room 5258, 52nd Floor, Huaqiang North Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and Room 803, Chevalier House, 45-51 Chatham Road South, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 836, 8/F, Beverley Commercial Centre, 87-105 Chatham Road South, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Dick Kuo, Ltd., Room 9-11, 5/F, Block B, Hoplite Industrial Centre, 3-5 Wang Tai Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 7359, 2/19/10.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Dick Leung, GF Seapower Industrial Building 177, Hoi Bun Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 7359, 2/19/10.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
DJI, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Shenzhen DJI Innovation Technology Co., Ltd.;—SZ DJI Technology Co., Ltd.;—Shenzhen DJI Sciences and Technologies Ltd.; and—Da-Jiang Innovations. 14 Floor, West Wing, Skyworth Semiconductor Design Building, No.18 Gaoxin South 4th Ave., Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China, 518057. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR), except for EAR99-designated technology for the operation, maintenance, or repair of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) released to this entity by the operator of the UAV | Case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; Presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20. 86 FR 29193, 6/1/21.
Dongfang Jingyuan Electron Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases: —DJEL; —Dongfang Jingyuan Electron Limited; —Oriental Crystal Microelectronics Technology (Beijing Co., Ltd.); —Dongfang Jingyuan Micro-Electronic Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd.; and —Oriental Crystal Source. No. 156 Jinghai 4th Road, Building 12, Beijing Economic and Technological Development Zone, Beijing, China and No. 156 Jinghai 4th Road, Building A4, Beijing Economic and Technological Development Zone, Beijing, China and Room 301F, Block C, Yingdali Technology Digital Park, Futian Free Trade Zone, Fubao Street, Futian District, Shenzhen, China and Building 12, Yard 156, Jinghai 4th Road, Economic and Technological Development Zone Beijing, 100001, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Dongguan Huawei Service Co., Ltd., Dongguan, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29852, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Dongguan Lingkong Remote Sensing Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Dongguan Lingkong Yaogan Technology Co., Ltd. Building 6, Dongfeng Science and Technology Park, Songshan Lake, Dongguan City, Guangdong Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 9390, 2/14/23.
Dongguan Lvyuan Industry Investment Co., Ltd., Dongguan, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29852, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Duling Technology (HK) Limited, 2-16 Fayuen Street, Room 4, 16th Floor, Ho King Commercial Centre, Mongkok, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 744.8(b), 744.11, 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
E-Chips Solution Co. Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Yichuangxin International Ltd. Shen Nan Road Block A, JiaHe HuaQiang Building, Room 3008, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518031, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Eagles Men Aviation Science and Technology Group Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Beijing Yige Siman Aviation Technology Group Co., Ltd.; and —EMAST. Room 1113, No. 1 Zhichun Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Room 314, 3rd Floor, Block C, Zhizao Street, Zhongguancun, No. 45 Chengfu Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Eagles Men Building, No. 7 Wande Zhihui Center, Changping District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 9390, 2/14/23.
Eastech Electronics Limited, a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —Eastech Electronics Ltd.; —Eastech Electronics; —Shenzhen East Technology Limited; —Shenzhen Yitai Technology Co., Ltd.; —Yitai Technology; —Yitai International Electronics Co., Ltd.; and —EASTECH. Room 17F, Block A Huaqiang Square, No.1019 Huaqiang North Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and Room 12F, Block A, Duhui 100 Building, Zhonghang Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and Room 2703, Tower West, Hangyuan Building, No.175 Zhenhua Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and Room B5, 1/F, Manning Industrial Building, 116-118 How Ming St., Kwun Tong, Hong Kong; and Room 32, 11/F, Lee Ka Industrial Building, 8 Ng Fong Street, San Po Kong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Workshop 60, 3/F, Block A, East Sun Industrial Centre, 16 Shing Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Easy Fly Intelligent Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Wuhan Drone Home Information Technology Co. Ltd.; —Wuhan Yifei Intelligent Management Consulting Partnership (Limited Partnership); and —Yifei Intelligent Technology (Wuhan) Co., Ltd. 4th Floor, 7th Building of Sun, City of Gezhou Dam, Gaoxin 4th Road, East Lake New Technology Development Zone, Wuhan, 430000, China; and East Lake Development Zone, Wuhan City High Tech Four Road, Gezhouba Dam City, 4 Buildings, 7 Buildings, Wuhan, 430000, China; and Room 1, Building 7, No. 40, Wuhan, Hubei Province 434400, China; and Gezhouba Sun City, No. 40, Gaoxin 4th Road, Building 7, 4th Floor, Room 1, East Lake New Technology Development Zone, Wuhan, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
Edward Fan, Hucun, Huafeng Town, Ningyang County, Tai'an City, Shandong Province, China | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16. 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
Ehang International Trade Limited, Flat/Room 32, 11/F Lee Ka Industrial Building 8NK Fong Street San Po Kong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Enhance International Trade Limited, Room 803 8/F Easey Commercial Building 253-261, Hennessy Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
ETC Electronics Ltd., Room 315, Fiyta Building, Zhenhua, Road No. 163, Shenzhen, China; and WHSE B DD118 Tai Shu Ha West Road New Territories, Yuen Long, Hong Kong; and Unit 2, D6, 2/F Mai Wah Industrial Building No. 1/7 Wah sing Street, Kwai Chung, New Territories, Hong Kong; and Unit 2 13/F Leader Industrial Center 57-59, Au Pui Wan Street Shatin, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Exeya Co., Limited, 18 Luard Road, Room D, 16/F, One Capital Place, Wan Chai, Hong Kong; and 2-12 Au Pui Wan Street, Workshop F8, 4F, Valiant Industrial Center, Fo Tan, New Territories, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.2l(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Exodus Microelectronics Company Limited, Unit 9B, Nathan Commercial Building 430-436 Nathan Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Unit 6B, Block 1, International Centre 2-8 Kwei Tei Street, Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong; and Unit 6B, Block 1, International Industrial Centre, 2-8 Kwei Tei Street, Shatin, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 1701, 1/13/10.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Fang Yu, 16 Gaoxin 4th Road, Xian High Tech Industrial Development Zone, Xian, China | For all items subject to the EAR. (See 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 36519, 6/28/10.
Farteco Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Farteco Ltd. 501-503 Castle Peak Road, Unit B090, International Industrial Building, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Unit D, 16/F One Capital Place, 18 Luard Rd, Wan Chai, Hong Kong; and Unit B909, 9th Floor, International Industrial Building, 501-503 Castle Peak Rd., Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Feng Bao Electronic Information Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —LINPO. Room A-522, No. 188 Yesheng Road, Lingang New Area, Shanghai, China; and Building 20, No. 487, Tianlin Road, Shanghai, China; and Kingkey Riverside Times Building, No. 9289, Binhe Avenue, Shenzhen, China; and Building 1, No. 4, Beitucheng East Road, Beijing, China; and Room 909, Jinlun International, No. 8 Hanzhong Road, Nanjing, China; and E502-2, International Science and Technology Park, Jinji Lake Avenue, Suzhou, China; and Building 5, Shanda International, No. 46, Shuxi Road, Chengdu, China; and Building 4, Yuquanshan, Huangjin Road, Dongguan, China; and Building A, Jiangnan Avenue, Hangzhou, China; and Building 2, Yabulun Industrial Park, Yazhou Bay Science and Technology City, Sanya, China; and Building B1, No. 4670-162, Xianyue Road, Xiamen, China; and Building 1, No. 51, Furong East Road, Xi'an, China; and Building B2, Poly Metropolis, No. 290, Hanxi Avenue East, Guangzhou, China; and Building 2, Optics Valley World City, Wuhan, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
Feng Bao Trading Hong Kong Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Linpo Nanotech Limited; —Linpo Sigma HK Limited; —Linpo Korea (HK) Limited; and —Global Corporation (HK) Limited. 9th Floor, Fook Hong Industrial Building, 19 Sheung Yuet Road, Kowloon Bay, Hong Kong; and 1st Floor, Goldlion Holding, No. 13-15, Yuen Shun Circuit, Satin, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
FiberHome Technologies Group, a.k.a., the following eight aliases:—FiberHome;—FiberHome International Technology Co., Ltd.;—FiberHome Networks;—FiberHome Networks Co. Ltd.;—FiberHome Telecommunication Technologies Co., Ltd.;—Haohuo Xiangyun Network Technology Co., Ltd;—Wuhan Fiberhome International; and—Wuhan Institute of Posts and Telecommunications. No. 6, Gaoxinsilu, East Lake High-Tech Development Zone, Wuhan, Hubei Province, 430205, China; and 88 Youkeyuan Road, Hongshan District, Wuhan China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 85 FR 34505, 6/5/20.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Foang Tech Inc., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Ofogh Electronics Co. 52F, Shun Hing Square, Unit 1-8 Di Wang Commercial Center, Shenzhen, China; and Flat/RM 1701-Ricky CTR, 36 Chowg Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
FOC (HK) Technology Co., Ltd., Room 8, 6/F, Shun On Commercial Building, 112-114 Des Voeux Road, Central, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Forensic Genomics International, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —BGI Forensic Technology (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd; —BGI Judicial; —FGI; —Huada Judicial; and —Shenzhen Huada Forensic Technology Co., Ltd. Building 11, Beishan Industrial Zone, Yantian District, Shenzhen City, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Fortune Source Electronics Co. Ltd., Unit A, 7/F Capri Building, 130 Austin Road, KLN, Hong Kong; and Unit A7/F Capri Building, 130 Austin Road, KLN, Hong Kong; and Unit 803, Fourseas Building, 208-212 Nathan Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 56003, 9/18/14.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Frontier Services Group Limited, Suite 3902, 39/F, Far East Finance Center, 16 Harcourt Road, Admiralty, Hong Kong; and 2201, Wing 1 Kunsha Center, 16 Xinyuanli, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China. (See alternate addresses under Kenya, Laos, and United Arab Emirates.) | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Fujian Jinhua Integrated Circuit Company, Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —JHICC. Sanchuang Park, Century Avenue Jinjiang City, Fujian Province, China; and No. 88, Lianhua Avenue, Jinjiang Integrated Circuit Science Park, Quanzhou City, Fujian Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.4(a)(9), 734.9(e)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) 5 | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 54521, 10/30/18. 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Fujian Sophon Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., and the following one alias: —Fujian Suanfeng Technology Co., Ltd. Room 916, Yangguang Building North, Fuzhou University Science and Technology Park, No. 2, Xueyuan Road, Shangjie Town, Minhou County, Fuzhou, Fujian Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4622, 1/16/25.
Fujian Suanxin Technology Co., Ltd., 02 1st Floor, #2-1 Building, Qiaoxingjun Area 2, North Baima Road, Nanjie Neighborhood, Gulou District, Fuzhou, Fujian Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4622, 1/16/25.
Fujian Torch Electron Technology Co., Ltd., No.4 Zihua Rd., Quanzhou Hi-Tech Industries Park (Jiang Nan Park) Licheng District, Quanzhou, Fujian; and Building 23, District 7, No. 188 South 4th Ring Rd W, Fengtai District, Beijing; and Suites 705-708, 7th floor, Ping'An Wealth Management Center, Building 1, 1588 Shenchang Road, Minhang District, Shanghai; and Suites 2904-2905, Yongwei Times Center, Jinye 1st Rd, Yanta District, Xi'an; and Suites 402-1, Building 1, Xicun Compound, No 1. Beisen N Rd, Qingyang District, Chengdu; and Suite 1507, Tower A, Wuhan Guanggu Times Square, No. 111 Guanshan Avenue Hongshan District, Wuhan; and Suite 905, Kairu Junlin Business Building, Intersection of Kaixuan W Rd and Shachang S Rd, Xigong District, Luoyang; and Suite 2306, Tower A, Yinuo Business Center, Intersection of West 2nd Ring Rd and Hehuan Road, Shushan District, Hefei; and Suite 404, Building W2, West District, Airport Business Park, Tianjin Airport Economic Zone; and Suites 1102-1103, Tower B2, No. 13 Ludu Avenue, Greenland Window Business Plaza, Yuhuatai District, Nanjing; and Suite 10009, Times Building, No. 55 Qingjiang Rd, Weibin District, Baoji, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Furuida Heilongjiang Supply Chain Management Co., Ltd., Room 803-773, Floor 8, Building 10, Harbin Songbei Technology Chuangxin Industrial Zone, 3043 Zhigu 2nd Street, Songbei District, Harbin, Heilongjiang, 150000, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Fushun Jinly Petrochemical Carbon Co., Ltd., Room 2104, Jinhui Plaza, No. 16 Dongsi Road, Xinfu District, Fushun, Liaoning, China; and 113015 East of No. 2 Petroleum Factory, Dongzhou District, Fushun, Liaoning, China, 113004. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 24565, 5/1/14.
Fuyuan Huang, No. 2A Zhonghuan South Road, Wangjing, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China, 100102; and Room 302 Office, Bldg 11, No. 4, Anningzhuang Rd, Beijing, China, 100085. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 44849, 7/28/15.
FY International Trading Company, a.k.a., the following one alias: —FYIT. Cac Kitt Building, Room 21B7, Shenzhen Guangdong China; and No. 48 Street, Office No. 6, 12th Floor, Wealth Commercial Centre, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and 707 to 713 Nathan Road, Flat Room B, 26th Floor, Silvercorp International Tower, Mong Kok, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and 426 Shanghai Street, Flat 2002C, 20F, Multifield Commercial Centre, Mongkok, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and No. 16 Shing Yip Street, Workshop 603F, Block A, East Sun Industrial Centre, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Flat F 10 Floor Hung Cheong Industrial Centre Phase I 12Tsing Yeung, Tuen Mun, N.T. Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 744.8(b), 744.11, 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gala Wang, Room 2506, Hengchang Building, No. 288, Hing Si Road, Jinan City, Shandong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
Galaxy Electronics, Unit 3-4 on 5/F, 26-28 Au Pui Wan Street, Futian Industrial Centre, Fo Tan Shatin, Hong Kong; and Block A2 G/F Hoi Bun Industrial 6 Wing Yip Street, Kwun Tong, 07000, Hong Kong; and Flat13 8/F Yale Industrial Center 61-63 Au Pui Wan Street Fotan, Hong Kong; and Hong Cao Road Rm 314 Block 4 #30, Shanghai, 200233, China; and Workshop S&T on 5/F Blk 1 Kin Ho Industrial Building Shatin NT, Hong Kong; and Kin Ho Industrial Building Nos 14-24 Shatin, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Gansu Shuili Hoisting Equipment Co., Ltd., Unit 2, No. 28, Xiaoxihu West Street, Lanzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
Gaobeidian Kaituo Precise Instrument Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Baoding Kaituo Precision Instrument Manufacturing Co., Ltd.; —Kaituo Precise; and —Kaituo Precise Instrument. Industrial CT Machine Industrial Zone, Youyi East Road, Baigou Town, Gaobeidian City, Hebei, China; and West of Xingsheng Avenue, Baigou Town, Baoding, Hebei, 074004 China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.3(d) of the EAR | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Gaohui HK Electronics, Room 1608, B Building, Jiahe Tower, No. 3006 Shennan Middle Road, Shenzhen, China 518031; and Rm. 311, 3/F, Genplas Industrial Building, 56 Hoi Yuen Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Flat/Room 33 8/F, Sino Industrial Place 9 Kai Cheung Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
General Technology Limited, Level 13, 68 Yee Wo Street, Causeway Bay, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.2(d) and 744.3(d) of this part | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
GEOVIS Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Zhongke Xingtu Co., Ltd.; and —Zhongke Star Chart Co., Ltd. 1A-4 Xingtu Building, National Geographic Information Technology Industrial Park, No. 2 Airport East Road, Airport Economic Core Area, Shunyi District, Beijing, China.; and No. 2, Jichang E. Road, Linkong Jingji Hexin District, Shunyi District Beijing, Beijing, 101399, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
Giant Base Asia Limited, Room 2205, 22/F, Kowloon Building, 555 Nathan Road, Hong Kong; and Flat E, Block 1, 12/F, Superluck Industrial Centre, Tsuen Wan, New Territories, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 18808, 03/28/13.80 FR 69856, 11/12/15.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Giovan Ltd., Suite 1505-6, Albion Plaza, 2-6 Granville Road, TsimShatSui, Kowloon, Hong Kong (See alternate address under India). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Glite Electronic Technology Co., Limited, Xiangmihu Road, Building 1, Room 1002, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and Fuhong Road, World Trade Plaza, Building A, Room 1106, Funan Community, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Global Broker Solutions Limited, 11 Shing Yip Street, Wah Shing Center, 9th Floor, Unit 9, Kwun Tong, 518002, Hong Kong; and 54-56 Jervois Street, Lower Ground Floor, Room B, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Global Training Solutions Limited, 8 Ng Fong Street, 11/F Lee Ka Industrial Building, Room 32, San Po Kong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 55035, 7/3/24.
GMC Semiconductor Technology (Wuxi) Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases: —GMCs; —GMC Semiconductor; —GMC Semitech; —GMC Semitech Co., Ltd.; and —Jimuxi Semiconductor Technology Co., Ltd. No. 1 Jingxiang Road, Xibei Town, Xishan District, Wuxi, Jiangsu, China; and No. 326 Room 22708, Unit 2, Building 1 (B), Yangyang International, No. 132, Zhuque Street, Yanta District, Xi'an City, Shaanxi Province, China; and Building 10, No. 860, Xinyang Road, Lingang New Area, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, China; and Room 1299, 1st Floor, No. 9 Cainan Road, Caiyu Town, Daxing District, Beijing, China; and Room 311, Office A, 3rd Floor, Reader New Media Building, No. 105, Wensan Road, National Animation Park, Sino-Singapore Eco-city, Binhai New Area, Tianjin, China; and No. 20, Dinglan Road, Funing High-tech Industrial Development Zong Yancheng, Jiangsu Province, China; and Room 509-1, Block A, Floor 1-5, Building 1, Smart Grid Industrial Park, No. 22 Gaoxin 4th Road, Donghu New Technology Development Zone, Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China; and No. 4-12, Jindong Commercial Street, Xibei District, Wuxi, Jiangsu Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Goodview Global, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Goodview Global Ltd.; and —Shenzhen Goodview Global Industry Co Ltd. Room 301 Renmin Road, Richuyinxiang Garden A Block, Bao an District, Shenzhen, China; and Rm. 1611 Building A3 Changsha Taskin City Plaza, Yuhua District, Changsha, China; and RM9018 B block Xinrong Bld., Mingbao Rd., Longhua District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and Rm2003 #A3 Buliding, Desiqin City Square, Yuehua District, Changsha, China; and Forte Land Square Yuhua District Rm19073 #a6 Buliding, Changsha, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
Grants Promotion Service Limited, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Catalano Limited; —Zhenao Co. Ltd.; and —GPSL. 430-436 Nathan Road, Nathan Commercial Building, 8th Floor, Room A, Yau Ma Tei, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Grun Group Co., Limited, Room 04, 16th Floor, Ho King Commercial Centre, 2-16 Fa Yuen St, Mong Kok, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Guangdong Munpower Electronic Commerce Co. Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Guangzhou Munpower Electronic Technology Co. Ltd. 38 Renzhen Xixing Street, Baiyun District, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China; and 82 Langbao West Road, 6th Floor, Rooms 605-610, Chancheng District, Foshan, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Guangdong Qinzhi Technology Research Institute Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Qinzhi Technology; —Qinzhi Tech; —Qinzhi Institute; and —GD Qinzhi. 2nd Floor, Block C, Building 20, Hengqin Creative Valley, Hangqin New District, Guangdong Province Zhuhai City, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Guangxin Shipbuilding and Heavy Industry Co., Ltd., Comprehensive Office, No. 32 Cuizhu Road, Cuiheng New District, Zhongshan City, Guangdong Province, China 528437. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
Guangzhou Biren Integrated Circuit Co., Ltd., Room 1061, Room 406, No. 1 Yichuang Street, Sino-Singapore Guangzhou Knowledge City, Huangpu District, Guangzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 71992, 10/19/23.
Guangzhou Guangyou Communications Equipment Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Guangzhou Guangyou Communication Technology Co., Ltd. No. 13 Yiyuan Road, Haizhu District, Guangzhou, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Guangzhou Haige Communication Group Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Haige Communications;—Guangzhou Radio Factory; and—State-owned 750 Factory. No. 88 Nan Yun Er Road, Guangzhou, China; and No. 88 Haiyun Rd, Guangzhou, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Guangzhou Hongyu Technology Co., Ltd. (a subordinate institute of CETC-7), Building 1, No. 381, Xingang Middle Road, Haizhu District, Guangzhou, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Guangzhou Huada Jiutian Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Guangzhou Huada; and —Guangzhou Empyrean. Room 1006, Building A, No. 18 Keke Avenue, Huangpu District, Guangzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Guangzhou Skyverse Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Guangzhou Nanolighting Technology Co., Ltd. Room 406-502, No. 1 Yichuang Street, Huangpu District, Guangzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Guangzhou Taicheng Shipbuilding Industry Co., Ltd., Dongdao Village, Dongyong Town, Nansha District, Guangzhou. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
Guangzhou Tian-Hai-Xiang Aviation Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Guangzhou Tianhaixiang Aviation Technology Co., Ltd.; and —THX Aviation. 1st Floor, Building 6, No. 4, Erheng Road, Second District, Jiangnan Industrial Zone, Nancun Town, Panyu District, Guangzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 9390, 2/14/23.
Guangzhou Tongguang Communication Technology Co., Ltd. (a subordinate institute of CETC-7), No. 381, Xingang Middle Road, Haizhu District, Guangzhou, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Gui'an New District Huawei Investment Co., Ltd., Guiyang, Guizhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29852, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Guilin Alpha Rubber & Plastics Technology Company Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Alpha Rubber. 90# Villa, Yingtelai Garden, Seven Star District, Guilin City, Guangxi Province, China; and Industry Chuangye Yuan, Kongming West Road, Seven Star District, Guilin City, Guangxi Province, China; and Run Yuan A6-2 HuiXian Road Seven Star District, Guilin City, Guangxi Province, China; and Venture Industrial Park, Kongming West Road, Qixing District, Guilin City, Guangxi Province, China; and Seven Star Road No. 71 Seven Star District, Guilin City, Guangxi Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
Guilin Changhai Development Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Changhai Machinery Factory; and—State-owned 722 Factory. No. 3 Changhai Road, Guilin, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Guowei Group (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Guowei Group; —SMIT Group; and —SMIT Shenzhen. Room 22A, Guoshi Building, No. 1801 Shahe West Road, High-tech Zone Community, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Gyro Technology Co., Ltd, a.k.a. the following one alias: —Gyro Holdings Limited. Floor 1, Building 5, Number 29 Jing Hai Second Road, Yizhuang Economic Development Zone, Daxing District, Beijing, 100176, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Hami Municipality Public Security Bureau, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Kumul Municipality Public Security Bureau, and—Qumul Municipality Public Security Bureau. Huancheng Rd., Hami District, Hami City, XUAR, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Hang Tat Electronics Enterprises Co., Room 2608, Technology Plaza 29-35 Sha Tsui Road, Tsuen Wan, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 63186, 10/12/11.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Hangzhou Biren Technology Development Co., Ltd., Building A, Room 3029, 3rd Floor, No. 482 Qianmo Road, Binjiang District, Hangzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 71992, 10/19/23.
Hangzhou Fuyang Koto Machinery Company Limited, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Koto Machinery; and —Hangzhou Fuyang Ketuo Machinery. No. 3 Hengliangting, Fuyang City, Zhejiang Province, China; and No.1007, Huifeng Building, No. 3 Hengliangting Road, Fuchunjiang Street, Fuyang City, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China; and Room 1205, No. 19, Jinping Road, Fuchun Street, Fuyang District, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
Hangzhou Hikmicro Sensing Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Hikmicro. Building A1, No. 299, Qiushi Road, Tonglu Economic Development Zone, Tonglu County, Hangzhou City, Zhejiang Province; and No. 209 Gold Road, Fuyang District Hangzhou, Zhejiang; and Fuyang Branch—1st Floor, Building 4, No. 209, Golf Road, Dongzhou St., Fuyang District, Hangzhou City, Zhejiang province, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Hikvision. No. 555 Qianmo Road, Binjiang District, Hangzhou 310052, China; and 23rd Floor, Block A, Yingke Plaza, No. 217 Gaoxin Street, Gaoxin District, Urumqi, China; and 700 Dongliu Road, Binjiang District, Hanzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19.85 FR 34505, 6/5/20.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Hangzhou Hualan Microelectronics Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases:—Hangzhou Hualan Microelectronique Co., Ltd.;—Hualan Micro;—Sage Microelectronics Corporation;—Sage Micro; and—Hangzhou Huasheng Microelectronics. 22nd Floor, Building 1, Huarui Center, No. 66 Jianshe 1st Road, Xiaoshan District, Hangzhou, China; and 6th Floor, North Block, Yinhe Fengyun Building, Gaoxin North Sixth Road, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China; and Room 510A, Ninggu Building, No. 7940 Humin Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, China; and Microelectronics Research Center, Hangzhou Dianzi University (7th Floor, Science and Technology Museum, Xiasha Campus), China; and Room 1202, Unit 4, Building 2, No. 9, Fenghao East Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and 2106 Tower F, Everbright Convention Center, Shanghai, China; and Room 1204, Building A, Skyworth Building, Shenzhen, China. (See alternate address under Taiwan) | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Hangzhou Huawei Digital Technology Co., Ltd., Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29852, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Hangzhou Zhipu Huazhang Technology Co., Ltd., Room 551, No. 857, 859, Shixin North Road, Yingfeng Street, Xiaoshan District, Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4619, 1/16/25.
Hangzhou Zhongke Microelectronics Co., Ltd., 10th Floor, Chuangxin Building, No. 3850 Jiangnan Ave., High-Tech Binjiang District, Hangzhou City, Zhejiang Province, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Hansen Technologies Limited, Unit 501, 5/F, Global Gateway, 168 Yeung HK Road, Tsuen Wan, Hong Kong; and 9/F, Henan Building, 19 Luard Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Harbin Aerospace Star Data System Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Harbin Aerospace Star; —HRB Space Star; and —HRB Spacestar. Building 5, No. 1616, Chuangxin Road, Science and Technology Innovation City, Harbin High-tech Industrial Development Zone, China; and Room 615, No. 77, Chuangxin Road, Building 1, Innovation and Entrepreneurship Plaza, Harbin High-tech Zone, Harbin City, Heilongjiang Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Harbin Chuangyue Technology Co. Ltd., Room 10l, Building 221, No. 8 Campus Street, Nangang District, Harbin, Heilongjiang, China; and Room 0103, 40 Nursery Street, Nangang District. Harbin, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 34497, 6/5/20.
Harbin Engineering University, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Harbin Engineering University, Rugao Research Institute and —Harbin Engineering University, Yantai Research Institute. No. 145 South Tongda Street, Harbin, Hellongjiang Province, China 150001. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 34501, 6/5/20. 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Harbin Institute of Technology, a.k.a., the following nine aliases: —Harbin Institute of Technology, Anshan Industrial & Technology Research Institute; —Harbin Institute of Technology, Chongqing Research Institute; —Harbin Institute of Technology, Huizhou Institute of International Innovation; —Harbin Institute of Technology, Shenzhen Research Institute; —Harbin Institute of Technology, Weihai Institute of Industrial Technology; —Harbin Institute of Technology, Wuhu Robot Industry & Technology Research Institute; —Harbin Institute of Technology, Wuxi Institute of New Materials; —Harbin Institute of Technology, Yibi Industrial Technology Research Institute; and —Harbin Institute of Technology, Yixing Environmental Protection Research Institute. No. 92 Xidazhi Street, Nangang District, Harbin, Heilongjiang, China; and No. 92 West Dazhi Street, Nangang District, Harbin, Heilongjiang, China; and No. 2 West Wenhua Road, Weihai, Shandong, China; and Pingshan 1st Road, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and 10th Floor, Block A, Keji South 10 Road, High-tech Zone, Yuehai Street, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China; and No. 17 Shenzhou Road, Office Building of Product Quality Supervision and Inspection Center of National Industrial Robot, Jiujiang Economic and Technological Development Zone, Wuhu City, China; and No. 2 West Wenhua Road, Weihai City, China; and 501 Lvyuan Road, Environmental Science and Technology Industrial Park, Yixing City, China; and Bei Hui Road, Industrial Transformation Cluster Area, Huishan, Wuxi, China; and Room 302, No. 9 Gangyuan Avenue, Lingang Economic Development Zone, Yibin City, China; and No. 618 Liangjiang Dadao, Longxing Town, Yubei District, Chongqing, China; and Management Committee of Huizhou Tonghu Ecological Wisdom Zone, No. 333 Xinhua Avenue, Zhongkai High-tech Zone, Huizhou City, Guangdong Province, China; and No. 196 Qianshan Zhong Lu, Anshan City, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 34497, 6/5/20. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22. 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Harbin Yun Li Da Technology and Development Co., Ltd., Building 7, No. 92 West Dazhi Street, Nangang District, Harbin, Heilongjiang, China; and Room 1, Building 2, No. 509 Pioneer Road, Nangang District, Harbin, Heilongjiang, China; and Room 1, Building 2, No. 509 Xianfeng Road, Nangang District, Harbin, Heilongjiang, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 34497, 6/5/20.
Hebei Far East Communication System Engineering, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Hebei Far East Comm.; and—HBFEC. 21 Changsheng Street, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China; and 21 Changsheng Road, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China; and 589 West Zhongshan Road, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 37427, 8/1/18.
Hefei Core Storage Electronic Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —HF CoreStorage; —CoreStorage; and —Hefei Zhaoxin. 13th Floor, Building F3, Phase II, Innovation Industrial Park, High-tech Zone, Anhui Province, Hefei City, China; and 6th Floor and 12th-13th Floor, Building F3, Phase II, Innovation Industrial Park, No. 2800, Chuangxin Avenue, High-tech Zone, Hefei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Hefei Kaishitong Semiconductor Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Hefei Kingstone Semiconductor. Room 102-3, R&D Building, Xinqiao Integrated Circuit Technology Park, No. 1 Shuofang Road, Airport Economic Demonstration Zone, Hefei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Hefei Meiling Co. Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Hefei Meiling Group Holdings Limited. Main Factory Building No. 2 East of Lianhua Road, South of Tangkou Road, Economic and Technological Development Zone, Hefei City, Anhui Province. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Sciences at Microscale, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—National Research Center for Microscale; and—Microscale National Research Center. No. 96, Jinzhai Road, Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Sciences at the Microscale, University of Science & Technology of China, Hefei, Anhui, 230026 China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Hefei National Laboratory for Quantum Information Science, a.k.a., the following one alias: —NLQIS. 5099 Wang Jiang West Road, Shushan District, Hefei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
Hefei Naura Microelectronics Equipment Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Hefei Naura; and —Hefei Naura Microelectronics. 2nd Floor, Building A, Electronic Factory, West of Tianzhushan Avenue and South of Shuofang Road, Airport Economic Demonstration Zone, Hefei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Hefei Starwave Communication Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Starwave Comm Tech Corp; —Star Wave Communication; and —Hefei Xingbo Communication Technology Co., Ltd. No. 11, Mechanical and Electrical Industrial Park, No. 767, Yulan Avenue, Hefei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 561, 1/6/25.
Hefei Zhihui Semiconductor Application Technology Co., Ltd., Electronic Factory Building A, West of Tianzhushan Avenue and South of Shuofang Road, Hefei Airport Economic Demonstration Zone, Hefei Economic and Technological Development Zone, Hefei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Hefei Zhiwei Microelectronics Co., Ltd., 2nd Floor, Building B, Hefei Zhiwei Semiconductor Co., Ltd., No. 3699 Dayu Road, Xinzhan District, Hefei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Hefei Zhiwei Semiconductor Co., Ltd., No. 3699 Dayu Road, Xinzhan District, Hefei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Henan Dingxin Information Industry Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Henan Dingxin. Building 10, Xibeijiao, Intersection of Gongan Road and Xinwa Road, Gaozhuang Town, Chengxiang Yitihua Model Zone Anyang Henan, 455000, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Policy of denial | 90 FR 14048, 3/28/25.
Hetian Haolin Hair Accessories Co. Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Hotan Haolin Hair Accessories; and—Hollin Hair Accessories. No. 4 Yulongwan Road, Beijing Industrial Park, Luopu County, Hotan District, Xinjiang; and No. 4 Yulong Bay Road, Beijing Industrial Park, Lopu County, Hetian, Xinjiang, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Hetian Prefecture Public Security Bureau, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Hotan Prefecture Public Security Bureau. 92 Beijing W Rd., Heitan City, Hetian Prefecture, XUAR 848000, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Hetian Taida Apparel Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Hetian TEDA Garment. No. 2 Jingdong Road, Hetian City, Hetian District, Xinjiang and Standardized Factory of Adelaide Industrial Park, Hetian Industrial Park, Hetian City, Hetian City, Xinjiang; and Standardized Plant of Edates, Beijing, Hetian Industrial Park, Hetian City, Hetian Area, Xinjiang, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Hexin Xingtong Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Unicorecomm; and —Hexinxingtong Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd. 3rd Floor, Beidouxingtong Building, No. 7 Fengxian East Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and 3F Building 8, No. 912 Bi Bo Road, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Highlander (Hong Kong) Maritime Navigation Science and Technology LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Highlandson (Hong Kong) Navigation Technology Co. Ltd. 48 Des Voeux Rd. Central, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Higon, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Higon Information Technology; —Haiguang Xinxi Jishu Youxian Gongsi; —THATIC; —Tianjing Haiguang Advanced Technology Investment; and —Tianjing Haiguang Xianjin Jishu Touzi Youxian Gongsi. Industrial Incubation-3-8, North 2-204, 18 Haitai West Road, Huayuan Industrial Zone, Tianjin, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 29373, 6/24/19. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22.
HiSilicon Optoelectronics Co., Ltd., Wuhan, Hubei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29852, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd (HiSilicon), Bantian Longgang District, Shenzhen, 518129, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29852, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
HiSilicon Tech (Suzhou) Co., Ltd., Suzhou, Jiangsu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29852, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
HMN International Co., Ltd., a.k.a. the following one alias:—Huahai Communication International Co., Ltd. Room 08, 43/F., Far East Finance Centre, No. 16 Harcourt Road, Admiralty, Hong Kong. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Hong Chun Tai, Unit 27B, Block 8, Monte Vista, 9 Sha On Street, Ma On Shan New Territories, Hong Kong; and Unit 7A, Nathan Commercial Building, 430-436 Nathan Road Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room D, Block 1, 6/F International Industrial Centre, 2-8 Kwei Tei Street, Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong; and Unit 9B, Nathan Commercial Building, 430-436 Nathan Road Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 1701, 1/13/10.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Hong Kong Cheung Wah Electronics Technology Company Limited, Flat D, 14/F., On Fook Ind. Bldg. 41-45 Kwai Fung Crescent, Kwai Chung, N.T., Hong Kong; and Room 2307, Dynamic World Bldg., Zhenzhong Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Hong Kong DEMX Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —DEMX Co., Ltd. 302-308 Hennessy Road, C C Wu Building, 21st Floor, Room 2107, Wanchai, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Hong Kong Fung Tak Enterprise, FLAT/RM A 30, 9/F Silvercorp International Tower, 707-713, Nathan Road, Mongkok, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Hong Kong Haiheng Electronics Co. Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Heiheng Electronics; and —HK Haiheng Electronics. Room 04, 16/F, Ho King Commercial Centre, 2-16 Fa Yuen Street, Mong Kok, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and 11C05, 11/F, Maoye Department Store Building, Wenxin 2nd Road, Haizhu Community, Yuehai Street, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, 518000, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Hong Kong Qisu Electronic Technology Co. Ltd., Room 12G, Block A, Guangbo Modern Window Building, 1058 Huaqiang North Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518028, China; and Room 705, 7th Floor, Aa Yuen Commercial Building, 75-77 Fa Yuen St., Mong Kok, Hong Kong; and Room 2321, Block A, Guangbo Modern Window Building, 1058 Huaqiang North Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518028, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Hong Kong Yayang Trading Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Hong Kong Yayang Trading Limited; —Hongkong Yayang Trading; and —Yayang. Room 04, 16/F, Ho King Commercial Centre, 2-16 Fa Yuen St., Mong Kok, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Hongkong Inkson Technology Limited, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Inkson Limited; and —Inkson Ltd. Rm 2309, 23/F, Ho King Commercial Centre, 2-16 Fa Yuen St., Mong Kok, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 2914C, 29/F Ho King Commercial Centre, 2-16 Fa Yuen St., Mong Kok, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 1219, Dingcheng Building, Zhonghang Road, Huaqiangbei Subdistrict, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518028, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Hongtai Electric Ltd., Room Number 2002, 20th Floor, Building B, Jinsha Winera Plaza, Number 1, Shujin Road, Qingyang District, Chengdu, Sichuan, 610091, China; and RMB 14/F Wah Hen Comm Center, 383 Hennessy Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.2(d) and 744.3(d) | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Hoshine Silicon Industry (Shanshan) Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Hesheng Silicon Industry (Shanshan) Co., Ltd. Xinjiang East: West of Kekeya Road, Stone Industrial Park, Shanshan County, Turpan City, Xinjiang (Hesheng Industrial Park), China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 86 FR 33120, 6/24/21.
HSJ Electronics, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —HSJ Electronic Hong Kong Limited; and —Shenzhen HSJ Electronics Co. Ltd. Room 803, Chevalier House 45-51, Chatham Road South, Tsim Sha Tsui, Hong Kong; and 10/F Kras Asia Industrial Building 79 Hung to Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and 19/F Pat Tat Industrial Building, 1 Pat Tat Street, San Po Kong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 6905, SEG Plaza, Futian, Shenzhen, China; and Room 831, Nanguang Building, Shennan Middle Road, Futian, Shenzhen, China; and 3f, N, 2 East Technology Park Tongsheng Industrial Park Dalang Town Baoan District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21. 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Hua Ke Logistics (HK) Limited, Rm. G01, G/F, Grandtech Center, 8 OnPing St, Siu Lek Yuen, Sha Tin District, Hong Kong; and Rm 501-502, 5/F, Grandtech Center, 8 On, Ping St, Siu Lek Yuen, Sha Tin District, Hong Kong; and Rm 601, 6/F, Grandtech Center, 8 On Ping St, Siu Lek Yuen, Sha Tin, Hong Kong; and Rm 603, 6/F Grandtech Center, 8 On Ping St, Siu Lek Yuen, Sha Tin, Hong Kong; and Rm 603-605, 6/F, Grandtech Center, 8 On Ping St, Siu Lek Yuen, Sha Tin, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Hua Ke Supply Chain (HK) Limited, Rm G01, G/F, Grandtech Center, 8 On Ping St, Siu Lek Yuen, Sha Tin District, Hong Kong; and Rm 501-502, 5/F, Grandtech Center, 8 On Ping St, Siu Lek Yuen, Sha Tin District, Hong Kong; and Rm 601, 6/F, Grandtech Center, 8 On Ping St, Siu Lek Yuen, Sha Tin District, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Hua Ying Management Co. Limited, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 85 FR 83769, 12/23/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huafeng Test & Control Technology (Tianjin) Co., Ltd., 1201 Chuanbo Road, Zhongxin Ecological City, Binhai, Tianjin, 300480, China; and 1201 Chuanbo Road, Sino-Singapore Eco-city, Binhai New Area, Tianjin, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Huawei Cloud Beijing, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Cloud Computing Technology, Huawei Cloud Data Center, Xinggong Road, Qianzhong Avenue, Gui'an New District, Guizhou Province, China; and Huawei Cloud Data Center, Jiaotianfu Road, Jinma Avenue, Gui'an New District, Guizhou Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Cloud Dalian, Dalian, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Cloud Guangzhou, Guangzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Cloud Guiyang, Guiyang, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Cloud Hong Kong, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20. 86 FR 12531, 3/4/21. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Cloud Shanghai, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Cloud Shenzhen, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Device Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Huawei Device; and—Songshan Lake Southern Factory. Dongguan, Guangdong, China and No. 2 Xincheng Avenue, Songshan Lake Road, Dongguan City, Guangdong, China; and Songshan Lake Base, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Device (Dongguan) Co., Ltd., Dongguan, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Device (Hong Kong) Co., Limited, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 85 FR 83769, 12/23/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Device (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd., Shenzhen, Guangdong, China and Building 2, Zone B, Huawei Base, Bantian, Longgang District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei International Co., Limited, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 85 FR 83769, 12/23/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Machine Co., Ltd., Dongguan, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei OpenLab Suzhou, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Huawei Suzhou OpenLab, Suzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Software Technologies Co., Ltd., Nanjing, Jiangsu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Tech. Investment Co., Limited, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 85 FR 83769, 12/23/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Technical Service Co., Ltd., China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Shenzhen Huawei Technologies; and—Huawei Technology, and to include the following addresses and the following 22 affiliated entities: Addresses for Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.: Bantian Huawei Base, Longgang District, Shenzhen, 518129, China; and No. 1899 Xi Yuan Road, High-Tech West District, Chengdu, 611731; and C1, Wuhan Future City, No. 999 Gaoxin Ave., Wuhan, Hebei Province; and Banxuegang Industrial Park, Buji Longgang, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518129, China; and R&D Center, No. 2222, Golden Bridge Road, Pu Dong District, Shanghai, China; and Zone G, Huawei Base, Bantian, Longgang District, Shenzhen, China; and Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 8182, 2/14/22. 87 FR 21012, 4/11/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Affiliated entities: Beijing Huawei Longshine Information Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Beijing Huawei Longshine, to include the following subordinate. Q80-3-25R, 3rd Floor, No. 3, Shangdi Information Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. Hangzhou New Longshine Information Technology Co., Ltd., Room 605, No. 21, Xinba, Xiachang District, Hangzhou, China. Hangzhou Huawei Communication Technology Co., Ltd., Building 1, No. 410, Jianghong Road, Changhe Street, Binjiang District, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China. Hangzhou Huawei Enterprises, No. 410 Jianghong Road, Building 1, Hangzhou, China. Huawei Digital Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd., No. 328 XINHU STREET, Building A3, Suzhou (Huawei R&D Center, Building A3, Creative Industrial Park, No. 328, Xinghu Street, Suzhou), Suzhou, Jiangsu, China. Huawei Marine Networks Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Huawei Marine; HMN Technologies; Huahai Zhihui Technology Co., Ltd.; and HMN Tech. Building R4, No. 2 City Avenue, Songshan Lake Science & Tech Industry Park, Dongguan, 523808, and No. 62, Second Ave., 5/F-6/F, TEDA, MSD-B2 Area, Tianjin Economic and Technological Development Zone, Tianjin, 300457, China. Huawei Mobile Technology Ltd., Huawei Base, Building 2, District B, Shenzhen, China. Huawei Tech. Investment Co., U1 Building, No. 1899 Xiyuan Avenue, West Gaoxin District, Chengdu City, 611731, China. Huawei Technology Co., Ltd. Chengdu Research Institute, No. 1899, Xiyuan Ave., Hi-Tech Western District, Chengdu, Sichuan Province, 610041, China. Huawei Technology Co., Ltd. Hangzhou Research Institute, No. 410, Jianghong Rd., Building 4, Changhe St., Binjiang District, Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, 310007, China. Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. Beijing Research Institute, No. 3, Xinxi Rd., Huawei Building, ShangDi Information Industrial Base, Haidian District, Beijing, 100095, China; and No. 18, Muhe Rd., Building 1-4, Haidian District, Beijing, China. Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. Material Characterization Lab, Huawei Base, Bantian, Shenzhen 518129, China. Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. Xi'an Research Institute, National Development Bank Building (Zhicheng Building), No. 2, Gaoxin 1st Road, Xi'an High-tech Zone, Xi'an, China. Huawei Terminal (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd., Huawei Base, B1, Shenzhen, China. Nanchang Huawei Communication Technology, No. 188 Huoju Street, F10-11, Nanchang, China. Ningbo Huawei Computer & Net Co., Ltd., No. 48 Daliang Street, Ningbo, China. Shanghai Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., R&D center, No. 2222, Golden Bridge Road, Pu Dong District, Shanghai, 286305 Shanghai, China, China. Shenzhen Huawei Anjiexin Electricity Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Shenzhen Huawei Agisson Electric Co., Ltd. Building 2, Area B, Putian Huawei Base, Longgang District, Shenzhen, China; and Huawei Base, Building 2, District B, Shenzhen, China. Shenzhen Huawei New Technology Co., Ltd., Huawei Production Center, Gangtou Village, Buji Town, Longgang District, Shenzhen, China. Shenzhen Huawei Technology Service, Huawei Base, Building 2, District B, Shenzhen, China. Shenzhen Huawei Technologies Software, Huawei Base, Building 2, District B, Shenzhen, China. Zhejiang Huawei Communications Technology Co., Ltd., No. 360 Jiangshu Road, Building 5, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
Huawei Technologies Service Co., Ltd., Langfang, Hebei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Training (Dongguan) Co., Ltd., Dongguan, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huayi Internet Information Service Co., Ltd., Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huayuanshitong Technology Co. Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Shenzhen Huayuanshitong Technology Limited; and —HK Huayuanshitong Technology Limited. Middle Shennan Road Block B, Jiahe Huaquiang Building, Room 1309, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and Zhenhua Road, Gaokede Electronics Market, Room 62826, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and 1002 Seg Plaza, 32nd Floor, Room 3203, Huaqiao, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Hubei Guangxing Communications Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—State-owned 711 Factory. No. 287 Jiangjin West Road, Jingzhou City, Hubei, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Hui Tong Business Ltd., Huawei Base, Electrical Research Center, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huisui Zhang, Room 204, Building 25, FuRen Ming Yuan, ShengGu Bei Li, ChaoYang District, Beijing, China 100029. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
Hunan Goke Microelectronics, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Hunan Guoke Microelectronics; and—Guokewei. No. 9, South Section of Dongshi Road, Quantang Street, Changsha Economic and, Technological Development Zone, China; and, Room 812, 8th Floor, No. 1, No. 26 Jiannei Street, Dongcheng District, Beijing, China, and, 1305-1308, Building 1, Xunmei Technology Plaza, No. 8, Keyuan Road, Shenzhen, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
HWA Create, 5/F, Xinshidai Building/New Era Mansion, 7 Huayuan Rd., Beijing, China; and No. B3 Huayuan Rd., Beijing, China, and Unit 1001-1002, 10F, Chinachem Building, 34-37 Connaught Rd., Hong Kong; and Unit A 5th Floor, Cheong Commercial Building, 19-25 Jervois St, Hong Kong; and Unit B, 6/F, Dah Sing Life Building, 99—1-5 Des Voeux Rd, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 36202, 6/26/14.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Hwa Tsing (Beijing) Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Huahai Qingke (Beijing) Technology Co., Ltd.; —Beijing Huahai Qingke; and —Beijing Hwa Tsing. Room 1107, Floor 11, Building 40, No. 1 Courtyard, Disheng North Street, Beijing, China and Room 505, Floor 5, Building 40, 1st Courtyard, Disheng North Road, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Hwa Tsing (Guangzhou) Semiconductor Co., Ltd., a.k.a. the following three aliases: —Huahai Qingke (Guangzhou) Semiconductor Co., Ltd.; —Guangzhou Huahai Qingke; and —Guangzhou Hwa Tsing. Room 508, Building A, No. 136 Kaiyuan Avenue, Guangzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Hwa Tsing (Shanghai) Semiconductor Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Huahai Qingke (Shanghai) Semiconductor Co., Ltd.; —Shanghai Huahai Qingke; and —Shanghai Hwa Tsing. 2nd Floor, 979 Yunhan Road, Lingang Innovation Zone, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Hwa Tsing Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Huahai Qingke Technology Co., Ltd.; —Huahai Qingke; and —Hwa Tsing. No. 11, Juxing Road, Xianshuigu Town, Jinnan District, Tianjin, China; and Building 8, Haihe Creative Center, No. 9 Juxing Road, Jinnan District, Tianjin, China; and Electronics Factory R&D Building, west of Zhushan Avenue and south of Shuofang Road, Hefei, China; and Room 362, Floor 18, Building B4, Wuhan Future Science and Technology City Overseas Talents Area, 999 Gaoxin Avenue, Wuhan, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Hyper Systems Union Limited, Unit A1 7/F Cheuk Nang Plaza, 250 Hennessy Road, Wan Chai, Hong Kong; and Rm. 905 Workingberg Commercial Bldg. 41-47 Marble Road Wan Chai, Hong Kong; and Flat D, 14/F., On Fook Ind. Bldg. 41-45 Kwai Fung Crescent, Kwai Chung, N.T., Hong Kong. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Hytera Communications Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Hytera Communications Ltd. Room 8, 11/F, Wang Fai Industrial Building, 29 Luk Hop Street, San Po Kong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 13, 9/F, Thriving Industrial Building, No.26-38 Sha Tsui Road, Tseun Wan, New Territories, Hong Kong; and Room 32, 11/F, Lee Ka Industrial Building, 8 Ng Fong Street, San Po Kong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
ICsole Technology Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias: —ICSOLE. 10th Floor, Metropolitan Heights at Century Place, Du Hui Xuan Building, 3018 Shennan Middle Rd, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518039, China; and 8th Floor, Chevalier House, 45-51 Chatham Road South, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 20, 7/F, Unit B3, Tuen Mun Industrial Centre, No.2 San Ping Circuit, Tuen Mun, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
ICSOSO Electronics Co. Ltd., a.k.a., the following eight aliases: —IC Soso Electronics Co. Ltd.; —Shenzhen Vic-zone Electronic Co Ltd; —Shenzhen Wangnianhua Electronics Co., Ltd; —Vic-Zone Co., Limited; —Viczone Electronics Company Ltd.; —Viczone Technology Company Limited; —Vizo Group Limited (Hong Kong); and —Weizhuo Group Co., Ltd. (Hong Kong). Unit 614, 6/F, Block A, Po Lung Center, 11 Wang Chiu Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Rm. 311, 3/F, Genplas Industrial Building, 56 Hoi Yuen Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and 26-38 Kwai Cheong Rd, Room 06 Block A 23/F, Hoover Industrial Building, Kwai Chung, N.T., Hong Kong; and Room 2405 Dynamic World Building, Zhonghang Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, China; and Room 2405 Dengcheng International, Zhonghang Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, China; and Zhong Road 30, Ping DiFu Ping, LongGang District, Shenzhen, China; and R1810 B Building Jiahe Tower No. 3006, Shennan Mid Rd, Shenzhen, China; and Unit C,D, 10/F, Shenmao Building, News Rd., Futian, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22. 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
IFLYTEK, National Intelligent Speech High-tech Industrialization Base, No. 666, Wangjiang Road West, Hefei City, Anhui Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19. 85 FR 44159, 7/22/20. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22.
IMAXChip, No. 59 King Yip Street, King Yip Factory Building, 5th Floor, Unit D5, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Shennan Middle Road, International Culture Building, Room 2508B, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and Kwun Tong Industrial Center Phase 3, 3rd Floor, Unit L, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Nos. 436-446 Kwun Tong Road, 13th Floor, Unit A15, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Shennan Road, Phoenix Building 2, Room 18E, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518000, China; and Lianqiu Building, No. 735 Renmin West Road, Wucheng District, Jinhua, Zhejiang, China; and Shenfang Building B3109, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518031, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Incomp Limited, Caifugang Building Block D Room1001b, Baoyuan Road, Xixiang District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and One Capital P, Unit D, 16/F, Wan Chai, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Infinity Wise Technology Limited, 7/F One Kowloon, 1 Wang Yuen Street, Kowloon Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 1213 Chui King House, Choi Hung Estate, Kowloon, Hong Kong (See alternate addresses under Taiwan). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Info Rank Technologies, Flat/Rm 1021, 10/F Ocean Centre, Harbour City, 5 Canton Road, TST Kowloon, Hong Kong, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Inner Mongolia First Machinery Group Co., Ltd. a.k.a. the following three aliases:—China North Industries Group Corporation Limited (NORINCO) 617 Factory;—FIRMACO; and—Inner Mongolia One Machine. North Minzhu Road, Qingshan District, Baotou City, Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, 014032 China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Insight Electronics, No. 195 Keji Road, Room 12A06, Block A, Century Yi Yuan, Yanta District, Xi'an, Shaanxi, China; and Nos. 351 & 353 King's Road, Bank Tower, 3rd Floor, Flat 3B, North Point, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Inspur (Beijing) Electronic Information Industry Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Langchao Beijing Electronic Information Co., Ltd.; —Inspur Beijing Electronic Information Technology; —Inspur Beijing Company; and —Langchao (Beijing) Electronic Information Industry Co., Ltd. 1st Floor, No. 2-1 C Building, No. 2 Shangdi Xinxi Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and 6/F, Building C, Chuangyeyuan, Shangdi, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and No. 224, Shan Da Road, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Policy of denial | 90 FR 14048, 3/28/25.
Inspur Electronic Information Industry Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following eight aliases: —Inspur Information; —IEIT Systems Co. Ltd.; —Incumber Electronic Information Industry Co., Ltd.; —Incubic Electronic Information Industry Co., Ltd.; —Incorphor Electronic Information Industry Co., Ltd.; —Wave Electronic Information Industry Co., Ltd.; —Chao Chao Electronic Information Industry Co., Ltd.; and —IEII. Floor 9, No. 801, Caoshanlingnang Road, Jinan, China; and No. 1036, Inspur Road, Jinan City, Shandong Province, China; and No. 1036, Wave Road, Jinan City, Shandong Province, China; and No. 1036 Langchao Road, Jinan, China; and 1026 Langchao Road, Jinan, China; and S01 Langchao Tech Park, No. 1036 Langchao Rd., Gaoxin District, Jinan, China; and 2877 Ke Hang Road, Jinan, Shandong Province, China; and 4F, Gangsheng Building, Intersection of Gangxi Road, Jinan, China; and No. 818 Wusong Road, Wusongjiang, Jinan, China; and Gansheng Building Ganyuan 6th, Shandong, China; and 10/F Ever Gain Centre, 28 on Muk Street, Sha Tin NT, Hong Kong; and 7A, Ho Tung Garden, Ho Tung Bridge, Sheng Shui, Hong Kong; and Unit 307, Block B, Po Lung Center, 11 Wang Chiu Road, Kowloon Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Koon Wah Mirror Factory, Hotin Street, Tuen Mun, Hong Kong; and Room 1203, Free Trade Centre 49, Tsun Yip Street, Kwun Tong Kowloon, Hong Kong; and 7th Floor, Unit 3C2 Sunac Smart Valley, No. 555 Wenhua, Wuhan, China; and Building 9, No. 1 Guanpu Road Guoxiang Street, Wuzhong Economic Zone, Suzhou Jiangsu, China; and F202, 16 Lixin Road, Shenzhen, China; and Unit 2901 Duhuixuan Shennan Road, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Policy of denial | 90 FR 14048, 3/28/25.
Inspur Electronic Information (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Inspur Information (Hong Kong); —Inspur Information Hong Kong; —Incumber Electronic Information (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd.; and —Inspur Information HK International Limited. Flat B&C, 30/F., Tower A, Billion Centre, 1 Wang Kwong Road, Kowloon Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Policy of denial | 90 FR 14048, 3/28/25.
Inspur Group Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Inspur Group; and —IGL. No. 1036 Langchao Road, Jinan City, Shandong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR)4 | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Inspur (HK) Electronics Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Inspur (Hong Kong) Electronics Co., Ltd.; and —Inspur (Hong Kong) Electronics. Room B&C 30th Floor, Block A, Billion Center, No. 1 Wang Kwong Road, Kowloon Bay, Hong Kong; and Unit 307, Block B, Po Lung CTR 1, Hong Kong; and No. 11 Wang Chiu Road, Hong Kong; and Room 5/F 5015E-5020E, Block B, ASI, Kwai Chung, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Policy of denial | 90 FR 14048, 3/28/25.
Inspur Software Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Hadong Inspur Software Co., Ltd.; —Shandong Langchao Cheeloosoft Co., Ltd; —Inspur Software; —Wave Software; and —Ren Chao Software Co., Ltd. Middle Section of Hu Shan Road, Tai'an City, China; and No. 1036, Langchao Road, Jinan City, Tai'an City, China; and Building No. 102, No. 1036, High-tech Road, Jinan City, Shandong Province, China; and No. 1036, Inspur Road, Hi-Tech Zone, Jinan, Shandong, 250101, China; and No. 1036 Langchao Road, Shunhua Road Street, High-tech Zone Jinan, Shandong, 250000, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Policy of denial | 90 FR 14048, 3/28/25.
Integrated Scientific Microwave Technology, a.k.a., the following one alias:—ISM Tech. Rm. 1014 Favor Industrial Centre, 2-6 Kin Hong Street Kwai Chung Hong Kong (see alternate address under Malaysia). | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Intellifusion, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Shenzhen Yuntian Lifei Technology Co., Ltd.; —Yuntian Lifei. 1st Floor, Building 17, Shenzhen Dayun Software Town, 8288 Longgang Avenue, Yuanshan District, Longgang District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 85 FR 34505, 6/5/20. 85 FR 44159, 7/22/20. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22.
IS'Vision, a.k.a., the following six aliases:—Chengdu Yinchen Netcom Technology Co., Ltd;—Isvision Tech;—Isvision Technologies Co., Ltd.;—Shanghai Is'vision Co.;—Shanghai Isvision Technologies Co., Ltd.; and—Yinchen Technology. Building 3, No. 498, Guoshoujing Road, Pudong, Shanghai, China; and 4F, No. 9 Building of Pudong Software Park, 498 GuoShoujing Road, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 85 FR 34505, 6/5/20.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
JAC Capital, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Beijing Jianguang Asset Management Co., Ltd. Floor 8, Beijing International Club Office Tower A, No. 21 Jian Wai Avenue, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China and Room 9-46, Building 6, Ronghui Garden, Linkong Economic Core Zone, Shunyi District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Jadeshine, R1102 B Tainyuangang Center, Dong San Bei Lu Bing 2, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 18811, 3/28/13.
Jadeshine Engineering (HK) Co., Room 702, Boss Commercial Centre, Ferry Street 38, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and G/F BLK C 255 Sai Tau Wai DD 123 Lot 1307 Yuen Long, NT, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 18808, 03/28/13. 80 FR 69856, 11/12/15.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Jadeshine Engineering HK Co., Shanghai, China; and Langfang, China; and G/F Blk C, 255 Tau Wai, DD 123 Lot, Yuen Long, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 18811, 03/28/13.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Jalal Rohollahnejad, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Jalal Nejad; and—Jia Yuntao. 1329, Unit 2, Building 1, Xin Shangdu, Block B, Optics Valley World City Plaza, Luoyu Road, Wuhan, Hubei, China 430000. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
Jason Shuai, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Jason Shine. Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 18811, 3/28/13.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
JCN (HK) Technology Co., Ltd., Room 8D Block A, Guanghao International Center, Meilong Road, Longhua District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and Unit 1516 Block B, Guanghao International Center, Meilong Road, Longhua District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and Rm. 502, Arion Centre, 2-12 Queen's Rd West, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 34497, 6/5/20.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Ji Hua Laboratory, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Guangdong Provincial Laboratory of Advanced Manufacturing Science and Technology; —Guangdong Provincial Lab of Chemicals and Fine Chemicals; —Ji Hua Lab; and —Yan Chang Ji Hua Lab. No. 28, Huan Dao Nan Road, Guangdong Province, Foshan, 528000, China; and No.28 Huandao South Road, Guicheng Street, Nanhai District, Foshan City, Guangdong Province, China; and No. 27/28 Island Ring South Road, Guicheng St., Nanhai Dist., Foshan, Guangdong, China; and No. 1 Xueyuan Road, Tuojiang Street, Jinping District, Shantou China; and No. 88 Keling Road, Science and Technology City, Suzhou High Tech, Foshan, China; and 13 Chengye Road, Shunde District, Foshan, China; and The Core Area of Sanlongwan High End Innovation Center, Foshan, China; and 13 Nanping West Road, Foshan, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 561, 1/6/25.
Jiangsu Hengtong Marine Cable Systems Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Jiangsu Hengtong Ocean Optical Network System Co., Ltd.; and—Smart Ocean System. No. 8, Tonga Road, Changshu Economic and Technological Development Zone, Suzhou City, Jiangsu Province. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Jiangsu Hengtong Optic-Electric Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Jiangsu Hengtong Photoelectric Co., Ltd.;—Hengtong Optoelectronics Co., Ltd.; and—HTGD. 88 Hengtong Avenue, Qidu Town, Wujiang District, Suzhou City, Jiangsu Province; and No. 2288, Zhongshan North Road, Wujiang District, Suzhou City, Jiangsu Province, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Jiangsu Hengxiang Science and Education Equipment Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Jiangsu Southern Airlines Hengxiang Co., Ltd. Ground Floor, Building 67, No. 29 Yudao Street, Nanjing, Jiangsu. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
Jiangsu Leidian Technology Company (JLTC), 88 Luyuan Road, Yixing Environmental Sciences Park, Jiangsu Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 44683, 8/1/14.
Jiangsu Nata Optoelectronic Material Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following six aliases: —Nata Optoelectronic; —Nata; —Nata Chem; —Nanda Chem; —Nanda; and —Nanda Optoelectronic. No. 67, Pingsheng Road, Shengpu, Suzhou Industrial Park, Suzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Jiangsu Qiwei Semiconductor Equipment Co., Ltd., No. 2015, Linyang Road, Qidong Economic Development Zone, Qidong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Jiangsu Suanxin Technology Co., Ltd., Room 1501, Building 1, No. 8 Zhujiawan Street, Gusu District, Suzhou, Jiangsu Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4622, 1/16/25.
Jiangsu Tianyuan Metal Powder Co. Ltd., No. 50, Jummin East Road, Yunhe, Lvcheng Town, Danyang City, Jiangsu Province, China 212352; and Canal military and civilians in Lucheng Town, Danyang City, Jiangsu Province 50 East Road, China, 212352; and No. 1, Airport East Road, Lucheng Town Danyang City, China; and Zhenjiang City, Jiangsu Zhenjiang, Danyang Lu Town Canal Army East, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 8182, 2/14/22.
Jiangsu Zhichun System Integration Co., Ltd., No. 500, Linyang Road, Qidong Economic Development Zone, Qidong, Jiangsu Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Jiangxi Hongdu Aviation Industry Group Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following 15 aliases: —AVIC Hongdu; —AVIC Hongdu Aviation Ltd.; —AVIC Jiangxi Hongdu Aviation Industry Group Co., Ltd.; —AVIC Jiangxi Hongdo Aviation; —AVIC Jiangxi Hongdu Industry; —Nanchang Aircraft Manufacturing Company; —State-Owned Hongdu Machinery Factory; —NAMC; —China Nanchang Aircraft Manufacturing Company; —CNAMC; —Nanchang Aircraft Manufacturing Hongdu Motorcycle Industry (Group) Company; —Jiangxi Hongdu Aviation Industry (Group) Corp., Ltd.; —Hongdu Aviation Industry Group Ltd.; —HAIG; and —HAIC. Aviation City, Nanchang High-tech Industrial Development Zone, Nanchang, Jiangxi, China; and P.O. Box 5001-506, Nanchang, 330024 Jiangxi, China; and Xinxiqiao Road, Qingyunpu District, Nanchang, Jiangxi, China; and 2436 Naiying Avenue Nanchang, China; and 5001 Xixi Bridge Qingpu Dist., Nanchang, China; and Suite 816, Silver Tower, Shijiazhuang, China; and No. 25 S One Rd., Sinxi Bridge, Nanchang City, Jiangxi, China; and No. 20 North of Hongdu, Nanchang, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Jiangxi Xintuo Enterprise Co. Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —T-MOTOR. Room 2103, No. 39 Commercial Building, Greenland New Metropolis, Ziyang, Avenue, High-tech Industrial Development Zone, Nanchang City, Jiangxi Province, China; and Rooms 2405, 2406, 2407, 24th Floor, B# Office Building, Yunzhongcheng, No. 3399 Ziyang Avenue, Nanchang High-tech Industrial Development Zone, Nanchang City, Jiangxi Province, China; and No. 888 Tianxiang Avenue, Nanchang City, Jiangxi Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 25505, 4/11/24.
Jicun Semiconductor Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Jicun Semitech (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Room 115, 1F, No. 45, Feila Road, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, China; and Building 17, Phase 9, Lingang Intelligent Manufacturing Park, Lingang Fengxian Park, No. 2858, Pingzhuang East Road, Fengxian District, Shanghai, China; and No. 45 Yougu Park, No. 58 Jinhong X, Xibei Town, Xishan, Wuxi, Jiangsu Province, 214192, China; and No. 1 Jingxiang Road, Xibei Town, Xishan District, Wuxi, Jiangsu Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Jinan Institute of Quantum Technology, a.k.a., the following one alias: —JIQT. No. 747, Shunhua Road, High-tech Zone, Jinan, Shandong, China; and Room 508-509, Area A, Block B, Qilu Software Park Building, Jinan, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
Jinan Tongbaolai Oilfield Equipment Co. Ltd, Room 2506, Hengchang Building, No. 288, Hing Si Road, Jinan City, Shandong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
Jinan Xin Yin Bo Electronic Equipment Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Jinan Xinyinbo Electronic Equipment Co. Ltd. Room 906, Building A, Huaqiang International Center, No. 157 Shanda Road, Lixia, Jinan, Shandong, China; and Room 907, Building A, Huaqiang International Center, No. 157 Shanda Road, Lixia, Jinan, Shandong, China; and 1-1001, Building 5, District 2, Chang'an New Town, Fengtai District, Beijing, China; and No. 179, Tianyunshan 1st Road, Jimo, Qingdao, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
Jinping Chen, No. 92 Weijin Road, Tianjin, China 300072; and 3rd Floor, Room 316, A2 Building, Tianjin University Science Park, No. 80, 4th Avenue, Tianjin Economic Development Area (TEDA), Tianjin, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
JLD Technology, Hong Kong Co., Ltd., Room 1237, Pacific Trade Centre, No. 2 Kai Hing Road, Kowloon Bay, Hong Kong; and Room 301-2, Hang Seng Wanchai Building, 3rd Floor, No. 200 Hennessy Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 32441, 6/5/14. 80 FR 69856, 11/12/15.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Joe Shih, Room 9-11, 5/F, Block B, Hoplite Industrial Centre, 3-5 Wang Tai Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 7359, 2/19/10.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Joinus Freight Systems HK Ltd, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—JFS Global Logistics; and—Joinus Freight Systems Global Logistics Limited. Unit 07-07, 25F, Tower B, Regent Centre, 63 Wo Yi Hop Road, Kwai Chung, N.T. Hong Kong and Units 801-803 and 805, Park Sun Building, No. 97-107 Wo Yi Hop Road, Kwai Chung, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16. 83 FR 44824, 9/4/18.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Jotrin Electronics Ltd., 3018 Shennan Mid-Road Unit 3901, Shenzhen, 518031, China; and Room G 4th Floor 1st Block Golden Building 152 Fuk Wah Street Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
K Logistics (China) Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias:—K Logistics Hong Kong. Unit A, 4/F., China Fen Hin Building, No. 5 Cheung Yue St., Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 34497, 6/5/20.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Kaili Industrial H.K. Limited, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Kaili Industrial (H.K.) Limited; —Kaili Industrial (HK) Limited; —Kaili Industrial H.K. Ltd.; and —Hong Kong Kaili Industrial Co., Ltd. 45-51 Chatham Road South, Room 803, Chevalier House, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Kashgar Prefecture Public Security Bureau, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Kashi Prefecture Public Security Bureau. Youmulake Xiehai'er Rd., Kashgar (“Kashi”) City, XUAR 844000, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Kelamayi Municipality Public Security Bureau, a.k.a, the following two aliases:—Karamay Municipality Public Security Bureau; and—Qaramay Municipality Public Security Bureau. 52 Yingbin Rd., Kelamayi City, Kelamayi District, XUAR 834000, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Key Laboratory of Information Systems Engineering, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —KLISE; and —Key Laboratory of Information Systems Engineering. Science and Technology Building of the National University of Defense Technology. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Kezilesu Kyrgyz Autonomous Prefecture Public Security Bureau, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Kizilsu Autonomous Prefecture Public Security Bureau. Guangming Rd., Atushi City, XUAR 845350, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19.85 FR 34505, 6/5/20.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Kindroid, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Jinzhuo Network Technology; and—Shanghai Jinzhou Technology. Room 802, Building 5, No. 3000 Longdong Avenue, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
King Pai Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases:—King-Pai Technology (HK) Co., Limited;—KingPai Technology Int'l Co., Limited;—KingPai Technology Group Co., Limited; and—Jinpai Technology (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd. No 13 4/F., Flourish Industrial Building, No. 33 Sheung Yee Road, Kowloon Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and 1488E, Block A, Shenfang Building, Huaqiang North Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, China; and Room 804, Block A, Shenfang Building, Huaqiang North Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, China; and Room 1508, Block A, Shenfang Building, Huaqiang North Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, China; and Room 1509, Block A, Shenfang Building, Huaqiang North Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, China; and Room 1805, Poly Tianyue Center, 332 Gaoxin Guanshan Avenue, East Lake, Wuhan, China; and 908 International Finance Building, No 633, Keji 2nd Street, Songbei District, Harbin, Heilongjiang, China. (See alternate addresses under Russia and Vietnam). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of Denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22. 87 FR 57082, 9/16/22.
Kingford PCB Electronics Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Shenzhen Jingfu Circuit Board Co., Ltd.; and —Shenzhen Xinjingfu Technology Co., Ltd. Building 6, Longhui Industrial Park, Fuqiao Third Industrial Zone, Fuyong Town, Bao'an District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Kinglead Electronics Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Kinglead International Trading;—Kinglead International Trading Limited;—Kinglead Trading; and—Phonide Electronics Limited. 15H Office Building Buji, Central Plaza, Jihua Road, Buji, Longgang, Shenzhen, China; and Room 1041 Pacific Trade Center, No. 2 Kai Hing Road, Kowloon Bay, Hong Kong; and B5-3, 29/F, Legend Tower, 7 Shing Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 32445, 6/5/14. 80 FR 69856, 11/12/15.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Kingstone Technology Hong Kong Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Kingstone Hong Kong Unit 12, 11/F, Metro Centre II, Number 21 Lam Hing Street, Kowloon Bay, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Kitronix Display, Unit B1, G/F, Pioneer Building, 213 Wai Yip St., Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 69856, 11/12/15.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Kobi International Company, No. 17 Sheung Hei Street, Success Industrial Building, 14th Floor, Room A1, San Po Kong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Kong Fat Electronic Trading Limited, Unit 5, 1/F, Block A, Hoplite Industrial Centre, 3-5 Wang Tai Rd., Kowloon Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Korchina Logistics (HK) Ltd., 1/F Metex House 24-32 Fui Yiukok Street Tsuen Wan New Territories, Hong Kong; and 11014-11016 W 11F ATL Logistics Center B Berth 3 Kwai Chung, Hong Kong; and Room 1008E-1010E 1/FL Centre A ATL Logistics Centre Kwai Chung, Hong Kong; and 63 Wang Ling Street Flat A 1/F Tsuen Was Industrial Tsuen Wang, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
KTK Group, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Jiangsu Jinchuang Group;—Jiangsu Jinchuang Holding Group; and—KTK Holding. No. 88, Jinchuang Road, Yaoguan Town, Wujin District, Changzhou City. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Kuang-Chi Group; a.k.a. the following one alias:—Shenzhen Guangqi Group. Software Building, No. 9, Gaoxinzhong Road, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, 518057, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; Presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20. 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Kunhai (Yanjiao) Innovation Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Kunhai Academy for Innovative Research and Data Technologies Co.; and—Kunhai Innovation Engineering Research Institute. 17th Floor, Block A, Building 5, Zhongguancun National Defense Science and Technology Park, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 34497, 6/5/20.
Kvantek Limited, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Kvantek Ltd.; —Kvantek; and —Kvantek (HK) Limited. Unit 704, 7th Floor,135 Bonham Strand Trade Center, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Kyland Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Dongtu Technology;—Beijing Dongtu Technology; and—Beijing Yibeite Technology. Floor 9-15, Building 2, Xishanhui, Shixing Street, Shijingshan District, Beijing, China; and Room 901, 8th Floor, Building 2, No. 30, Shixing Street, Shijingshan District, Beijing, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
L-Tong Electronic Technology Company, Room 411, Yue Peng Building, Jiabin Road, Luohu District, Shenzhen, China; and Room 205, 2/F, Winful Center, 30 Shing Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
Landa Ariya Electronic Co., a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Landa Ariya Electronic Co. Ltd.;—Landa Electronic; and—Landa Electronics. Building B, No. 20J, Huaqiang Plaza, Shenzhen, China; and Huaqiang North Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. (See alternate addresses in Iran). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Laurel Technologies Co. Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Laurel Industrial Co. Suite 1807-1810, KunTai International Mansion, No. 12 B, Chaowai St., Beijing, 100020, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Leadway Technology Limited, a.k.a. the following one alias: —Shenzhen United Leadway Technology. Room 812, Building 511, Bagualing Industrial Zone, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518028, China; and 406 Hongyi Building, Longgang District, Jihua Road, Shenzhen, Bantian, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Leon Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Liang Technology;—Lion Technology;—Xinjiang Leon Telecom; and Technology—LAJS. No. 518 Yanshan Street, Urumqi Economic and Technological Development Zone, Xinjiang Uyhgur Autonomous Region, China; and No. 13.14.15A, 30th Floor, Unit 4, Building 1, No. 508, East Second Section of the Second Ring Road, Chenghua District, Chengdu, Sichuan Province, China; and No. 2-15, Meijing District, Lishui, Tumushuke City, Xinjiang, China; and Room 614 (6th Floor), Office Building, Nanchang Haowei Shopping Mall, No. 1155, Fusheng Road, Xihu District, Nanchang City, Jiangxi Province, China; and No. 491-3, Building 1, Yonyou Industrial Park, Yazhou Bay Science and Technology City, Yazhou District, Sanya City, Hainan Province, China; and Room 111, 1st Floor, Building 8, No. 48, Jiuhuan Road, Jianggan District, Hangzhou City, Zhejiang Province, China; and Room 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, No. 122, Huangpu Avenue West, Tianhe District, Guangzhou City, China; and No. 17-2-402, Jiaxin Garden, 20 Wenhua Road, Korla City, Bazhou, Xinjiang, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Lett Tronic Group Limited, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —LETT TRONIC; and —Lett Tronic Group Ltd. Room 603, 6/F, Hang Pont Commercial Building, 31 Tonkin Street, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 101, 3/F, Investment Bank Building, 1st Fuhua Street, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and Room 3A02, 4/F, Investment Bank Building, 1st Fuhua Street, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and Room 2405A, Investment Bank Building, 1st Fuhua Street, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and Room 2401 Dynamic World Building, Zhonghang Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and Unit 03, 6/F, Hang Pong Commercial Building, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Workshop 60, 3/F, Block A, East Sun Industrial Centre, 16 Shing Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Unit A1, 2/F, Wing Cheung Industrial Building, 58 Kwai Cheong Road, Kwai Chung, Hong Kong; and Room 2410, DingCheng Building, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and Unit 02, 21/F, Hip Kwan Commercial Building, 38 Pik Street, Yau Ma Tei, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
LHI Technology (H.K.) Company Limited, Units 801-803 and 805, Park Sun Building, No. 97-107 Wo Yi Hop Road, Kwai Chung, N.T., Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 44824, 9/4/18. 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Liang Ping Huang, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Sana Wong. Unit A10, 8/F, Block A, Proficient Industrial Centre, No. 6 Wang Kwun Road, Kowloon Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and 11/F, Front Block, Hang Lok Building, 128-130 Wing Lok St., Sheu, Hong Kong; and Rm 2318, Dengcheng Plaza, Zhenzhong Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, China; and 18th Floor, Building B, Guoli Building, Zhonghang Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.2(d) and 744.3(d) of the EAR | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Liaoyang Carbon Co., Ltd., No. 688 Liuan Road, Liuerpu Economic Development Zone, Liaoyang City, Liaoning, China 11212. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 24565, 5/1/14.
Light Cloud (Hangzhou) Technology Co., Ltd., Room 403, Building 15, No. 1818-2, Wenyi West Road, Yuhang Street, Yuhang District, Hangzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 71992, 10/19/23.
Lim Kow Seng, a.k.a., the following five aliases:—Alvin Stanley;—Eric Lim;—James Wong;—Mike Knight; and—Seng Lim Kow. Flat/Rm 3208 32/F, Central Plaza, 18 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong; and Flat/RM 2309, 23/F, Ho King COMM Center, 2-16 Fa Yuen Street, Mongkok KLN, Hong Kong (See alternate addresses under Singapore). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 67062, 10/31/11.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Lim Yong Nam, (a.k.a. Lin Rongnan, Steven Lim and Yong Nam Lim), YuJingHuaCheng Huaqiang South Road Futian, Shenzhen, China 518033; and Room 2613, NanGuangJieJia Building ShenNan Road, FuTian, Shenzhen, China 518033 (See alternate addresses under Singapore) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 67062, 10/31/11.
LINKZOL (Beijing) Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Lianzhong Cluster (Beijing) Technology Co., Ltd. Room 701, Floor 7, Building 6, No. 1 Chaoqian Road, Science and Technology Park, Changping District, Beijing, China; and Floor 6, Building 6, Beijing Enterprises Hongchuang Technology Park, No. 1 Chaoqian Road, Science and Technology Park, Changping District, Beijing (Changping Department), China; and E-1201, Wuhan Living Room, No. 8 Hongtu Avenue, Dongxihu District, Wuhan, Hubei (Wuhan Department), China; and C-2701, Wuhan Living Room, No. 8 Hongtu Avenue, Dongxihu District, Wuhan, Hubei (Wuhan Department), China; and Room 941, Building 1, Yard 62, Balizhuang, Haidian District, Beijing (Haidian Department), China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 25505, 4/11/24.
LL Electronic Limited, 15th Floor, Hillier Comm. Building, 65-67 Bonham Strand East, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Longkui Qu, Gucheng, Linhai, Zhejiang, China 317000; and China Jincheon Tung Cheng Jin Road, Linhai City, Zhejian Province, #431, 317005, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 21236, 5/14/19.
Longtek Company, Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Beijing Landuyt Feng Technology Co., Ltd. Room 1105, TianZuo International Center A, No, 12, Zhongguncun South Street, Haidan District, Beijing 100081, China | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Loongson Technology, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Loongson Technology Corporation Limited; —Loongson Zhongke Technology Co., Ltd; —Loongson Zhongke; and —Godson Zhongke. Room 101, 1st Floor, Building 4, Yard 7, Dijin Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR)4 | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Luo Dingwen, Room 905 Fubaoxiuyu Business Building A, No. 77 Fuxing Road, Baoding City, Hebei, China; and 35 Baihua West Road, New Urban District, Baoding City, Hebei, China; and Industrial CT Machine Industrial Zone, Youyi East Road, Baigou Town, Gaobeidian City, Hebei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.3(d) of the EAR | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Luo Jie, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Cherry;—Ivy Luo; and—Jie Luo. Room 1007, Block C2, Galaxy Century Bldg., CaiTian Rd., FuTian District, Shenzhen, China; and Room 1702, Tower B, Honesty Building, Humen, Dongguan, Guangdong, China; and Flat/RM 1510A, 15/F Ho King COMM Ctr, 2-16 Fa Yuen Street, Mongkok KL, Hong Kong; and C/O Win Sino Flat 12, 9/F, PO Hong Centre, 2 Wang Tung Street, Kowloon Bay, KLN, Hong Kong; and Flat/Rm D, 11/F 8 Hart Avenue, 8-10 Hart Avenue, Tsim Sha Tsui KL, Hong Kong; and G/F, No. 89, Fuyan Street, Kwun Tong, Hong Kong; and Flat 12, 9F Po Hong Kong, 2 Wang Tung Street, Kowloon Bay, Hong Kong; and Flat/RM B 8/F, Chong Ming Bldg., 72 Cheung Sha Wan Road, KL, Hong Kong; and Flat/Rm 3208 32/F Central Plaza, 18 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 67062, 10/31/11.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Luopu Haishi Dingxin Electronic Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Luo Pu District HaiShi Ding Xin Electronic Technology Co., Ltd.; and —Luopu County Haishi Dingxin Electronic Technology Co., Ltd. No.8, South Side, National Highway 315, Luopu County Petroleum Company Hotan Prefecture, Xinjiang, 848201 China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 18985, 3/30/23.
Luoyang Institute of Science and Technology, a.k.a. the following one alias: —Luoyang Institute of Technology. No. 90, Wangcheng Avenue, Luolong District, Luoyang City, Henan Province, China; and Mudan Blvd., Near Peony Ave, Luoyang, Luolong District, Henan, China 471025; and No. 71 Jiudu W Rd., Jianxi District, Luo Yang Shi, Henan, China, 471000; and No. 8 Xuezi St., Luolong District, 8, Henan, China, 471023. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Ma Yunong, a.k.a., the following one alias:—George Ma. B-804 SOHO New Town, 88 Jianguo Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100022, China; and Room 1002, LT Square, No. 500, Chengdu North Road, Shanghai, 200003, China; and Unit 1906-2, West Tower, Fortune Plaza, No. 114, Tiyu Dong Rd, Tianhe District, Guangzhou 510620, China | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 44824, 9/4/18.
MAK Logistics, Unit B2, 3/F, 18-24 Kwai Cheong Road., Mai Shun Industrial Building, Kwai Chung, New Territories, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Maxtronic International Co., Ltd., a.k.a. the following one alias: —Maxtronic Global Limited. 2301 Dynamic World Building, Zhonghang Road, Shenzhen, Futian District, 518031, China; and Room 301 One Fuhu Street, Shenzhen, 518000, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Megatek Ltd., Unit B2, 3/F, 18-24 Kwai Cheong Road., Mai Shun Industrial Building, Kwai Chung, New Territories, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Megvii Technology, 3rd Floor, Block A, Rongke Information Center, No. 2 South Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Floor 3rd Unit A Raycom Infotech Park, No 2 Kexueyuan, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19. 85 FR 44159, 7/22/20. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22.
Mei Xin Electronic (HK) Co., Limited, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Mei Xin Electronic HK Co., Limited; —Meixin Electronics; and —MEIXIN ELECT. Room 1005(B), 10/F, Ho Kong Commercial Center, 2-16 Fa Yuen St., Mong Kok, Hong Kong; and Room 10B, Block A, Guangbo Modern Window Building, Zhenhua Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518028, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Midas Lighting Limited, Room 603, 6/F, 9 Walnut Street, Tai Kok Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 09, 27/F, Ho King Commercial Centre, 2-16 Fa Yuen St., Mong Kok, Hong Kong; and Unit 4, Bright Way Tower, No.33 Mong Kok Rd., Mong Kok, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room A1, 11/F, Winner Building, 36 Man Yue Street, Hung Hom, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Unit 1402A, 14/F, The Belgian Bank Building, 721-725 Nathan Road, Mong Kok, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Minhoo Logistics Limited, Workshop 60, 3rd floor, Block A, East Sun Industrial Centre, 16 Shing Yip Street, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Mohamad Reza Rajabi, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Dr. Alex Xu; —Dr. Ahmad Temi; —Ahmad A. Temijani; —Ahmadi Rajabi; and —Marzich Ghiami Tamijan. 72 No—Fuzhong Road, Fuyong Sub-District, Bao'an District, Shenzhen City, Guangdong Province, 518100, China. (See alternate addresses under Iran). | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Moore Thread Intelligent Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd., a.k.a, the following two aliases: —Moore Threads; and —Mo'er Xianchen. Room 209, Floor 2, No. 31, Haidian Street, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Building 14, B655, 4th Floor, Cuiwei Zhongli, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Units 04 and 05, Floor 12, No. 3, Jinke Road, Shanghai, China; and Building B, B2-1405, No. 15 Keyuan Road, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China; and Building 6 Floors 1 and 3, Wangjing East Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China; and R&D Center Building, No. R2505, Floors 1-14 and 16-28, East Lake New Technology Development Zone, Wuhan, China; and Building 4, Room 1502, Floor 15, Taiwei Smart Chain Center, Xi'an, China; and Building 1, Room 31816, 3rd Floor, Puyan Street, Binjiang District, Hangzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 71992, 10/19/23.
Moore Thread Intelligent Technology (Chengdu) Co., Ltd., Building 2, No. 23-32, 12th Floor, Block E5, Chengdu High-tech Zone, Pilot Free Trade Zone, Chengdu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 71992, 10/19/23.
Moore Thread Intelligent Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Units 1-5, 12th Floor, No. 2, Jinke Road, Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 71992, 10/19/23.
Most Development Limited, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Most Development; and —Most Development Ltd. 2-16 Fayuen Street, Office 4, 16/F, Ho King Commercial Center, Hong Kong; and 9 Yin Chong Street, 21F, Room 01, Prosper Commercial Building, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.2l(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Most Technology Limited, Nos. 436-446 Kwun Tong Road, Block 4, 14th Floor, Room A15, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and 59 King Yip Street, King Yip Factory Building, 5th Floor, Room D5, Kwun Tong, Hong Kong; and No. 75-77 Garden Street, Garden Commercial Building, 7th Floor, Room 705, Mong Kok, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Moyu Haishi Electronic Technology Co., Ltd., No. 7, Yinhe North Road, Moyu County Hotan Prefecture, Xinjiang, 848100 China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 18985, 3/30/23.
MTech Industrial Limited, 1802, No. 26 Building, TianSheng Garden, Longwangshan Road, Huzhou, Zhejiang, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Multi-Mart Electronics Technology Co, Ltd., 5/F Blk 37A, 3 Qiaogao Road, Nanhai, Guangdong, Foshan, China; and 29J King Palace Plaza, 55 King Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 21236, 5/14/19.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Nanda Optoelectronic Semiconductor Materials Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Nata Optoelectronic Semiconductor; —Nata Semiconductor; —Nanda Semiconductor; and —Nanda Optoelectronic Semiconductor. No. 117, Xincheng Avenue, Shitan Industrial Park, Shizi Town, Quanjiao County, Chuzhou, Anhui Province, China; and No. 686-688, Xincheng Avenue, Quanjiao County, Chuzhou, Anhui Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Nanjing Aixi Information Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following alias: —Nanjing Aixi IT. No. 18, Xianlin Avenue, Maqun Street, Qixia District, Nanjing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Nanjing Asset Management Co., Ltd., No. 29 Yudao Street, Nanjing, Jiangsu. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
Nanjing Chunhui Technology Industry Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Nanjing Chunhui Keji Shiye Youxian Gongsi; and —Nanjing Chunhui Technology Industrial Co., Ltd. No. 30, Andre, Yuhua West Road, Nanjing City, China; and No. 18 Gaoxin Road, Jiangbei New District, Nanjing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Nanjing Colpak Mechanical Equipment Co., Ltd., Office No. 1-128, Front Bungalow, 21 Lanqi Street, Qinhuai District, Najing, Jiangsu, 210000, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.2(d) and 744.3(d) of the EAR | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Nanjing Fiberglass Research and Design Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —NRDI; and —Nanjing Fiberglass Research. 30 Andeli, West Yuhua Road, Nanjing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Nanjing FiberHome Starrysky Communication Development Co., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Nanjing Fenghuo Xingkong Communication Development Co.; and—Fiberhome StarrySky Co., Ltd. 88 Yunlongshan Road, Jianye District, Nanjing China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 85 FR 34505, 6/5/20.85 FR 44159, 7/22/20.86 FR 12531, 3/4/21.
Nanjing Huada Jiutianke Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Nanjing Huada; and —Nanjing Empyrean. Tower A, 8th floor, Chuangzhi Building, No. 17 Xinghuo Rd., Gaoxin District Nanjing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Nanjing Institute of Astronomical Optics and Technology, a.k.a., the following one alias: —NIAOT. No 188 Bancang Street, Nanjing, 210042, China; and No 188 Ban Cang Street, Nanjing, 210042, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
Nanjing Jiuding Refrigeration & Air-conditioning Equipment Co., Ltd., No. 8, West Longzhong Road, Luhe Economic Development Zone, Nanjing, Jiangsu 211500, China. (See alternate address under Pakistan). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.2(d) and 744.3(d) | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Nanjing LES Cybersecurity and Information Technology Research Institute Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following six aliases: —Nanjing Laisi Netcom Technology Research Institute Co., Ltd.; —Nanjing Laisi Network Information Technology Research Institute Co., Ltd.; —Nanjing LES Network Information Technology Research Institute Co., Ltd.; —Nanjing LES Netcom Technology Research Institute Co., Ltd.; —Laisi Netcom; and —LES Netcom. Building 05, Tianan Digital City, No. 36 Yongfeng Avenue, Qinhuai District, Nanjing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Nanjing LES Electronic Equipment Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Nanjing Rice Electronic Equipment Co., Ltd.; —LES Electronics; —Rice Electronics; —LES Electronic; and —Rice Electronic. No. 1 Alfalfa Garden East Street, Qinhuai District, Nanjing, China; and Jiangsu Province, Building 05, Tianan Cyber City, No. 36 Yongfeng Avenue, Qinhuai District, Nanjing, China; and No. 99, Houbiaoying Road, Qinhuai District, Jiangsu Province Nanjing City, China; and No. 8 Yongzhi Road, Qinhuai District, Nanjing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Nanjing LES Information Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a. the following alias: —Nanjing Rice Information Technology Co., Ltd. No. 8 Yongzhi Road, Qinhuai District, Nanjing, China; and Room 1609 Building 101 No. 8 Yongzhi Road, Nanjing, China; and No. 1 Muxu Yuan Str Zhongshanmenwai, Nanjing, China; and E01-369, No. 861-1, Shangshengou Village, Hunnan District, Shenyang City, Liaoning Province, China; and No. 861-1 Shangshengou Village, Hunnan District, Shenyang City, Liaoning Province, E01-369, China; and No. 3, Daxing Community, No. 533, Lihan West Avenue, Xitianwei Town, Licheng District, Putian City, Fujian Province, China; and Room 10617, Tianlang Weilan Internationa. No. 3, Daqing Road, Lianhu District, Xi'an City Shaanxi Province, China; and Room 602, 6th Floor, Building 3, No. 3 Yongfu Road, Yuexiu District, Guangzhou City, China; and No. 533 Lihan West Avenue, Xitianwei Town, Licheng District, Putian City, Fujian Province, China; and Room 272, Unit 2, Building 1, No. 76-2, Xiaoqiao Street, Chengbei District, Xining City, China; and Room 702-21, Fujian Building, Huaxing Road, Hedong District, Tianjin, China; and No. 2020, 20th Floor, Unit 2, Building 20, No. 466, Wandong Road, Wan'an Town, Tianfu New District, Chengdu, Sichuan Province, China; and 3017B, 3rd Floor, Building 11, No. 66, Tiantan East Road, Dongcheng District, Beijing, China; and No. 26, 1st Floor, Commercial Plot, Longxiangyuan Building, Didang Street, Yuecheng District, Shaoxing City, Zhejiang Province, China; and Room A123, Unit C1-2, No. 859, Panxu Road, Gusu District, Suzhou City, China; and No. 1, 7th Floor, Building 3, No. 3, Xingguang 5th Road, Liangjiang New District, Chongqing, China; and Room 601, Unit 1, Building 2, Yashiyuan, Guorui City, No. 7 Daying East Road, Meilan District, Haikou City, Hainan Province, China; and No. 1403B, 14th Floor, Block A (Unit 1), Building 1, Oriental Pearl Garden, no. 40-1, Shuangyong Road, Qingxiu District, Nanning City, China; and Room 510, 5th Floor, Building A, Building 3, Muhua Plaza, Dongzheng Shang Huhua Plaza, Mingli Road, West Lake Xindao Road, Longzihu Wisdom Island, Zhengdong New District, Zhengzhou City, China; and 6F-B606, Qingchuang Space Building, Huai'an Ecological Cultural Tourism Zone, China; and Room 426, 4th Floor, Management Committee of Industrial and Trade Park, Baoshan City, Yunnan Province, China; and No. 17, 5th Floor, No. 2, Heping Road, Xiangfang District, Harbin, China; and No. 6, 1st Floor, Building 1, Xiangzhangyuan, Wisdom Longcheng, Songshan Road, Yunyan District, Guiyang City, Guizhou Province, China; and Room 1-102-658, Maker Space Room, No. 3, Pudong Street, Shanghai Road, Economic and Technological Development Zone, Urumqi, Xinjiang, China; and Room 303-31, No. 88, Shangpo Street, Shangpo Village, Chengguan Town, Rongcheng County, Baoding City, Hebei Province, China; and 2322-2323, Block A, Building 3, Guogou Plaza (Commercial), Xiangshan District, Huaibei City, Anhui Province, China; and Room 901, 9th Floor, Building 1, Qilin Science and Technology Park, No. 20, Qiyun Road, Changsha High-tech Development Zone, China; and Room 402, No. 669, Fong Road, Huangdao District, Qingdao City, Shangdong Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Nanjing Panda Handa Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Nanjing Runjingtai Real Estate Co., Ltd.; —NPEC Handa Technology Co., Ltd.; —Nanjing Panda Handa Science; and —Panda Handa Nanjing Telecom. No. 3, Lianhe Village, Qinhuai District, Nanjing City, Jiangsu, China; and No. 301 East Zhongshan Rd., Nanjing, China; and Rooms 2402, 2403, and 2404, 22nd Floor, Tianxingjian Business Building, no. 47 Fuxing Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Nanjing Simite Optical Instruments Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —SMT Optical Instruments; and —Nanjing Schmidt Optical Instruments Co., Ltd. Third Industrial Concentration Zone, Dongping Town, Lishui District, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 561, 1/6/25.
Nanjing Synergy Textiles Co. Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Nanjing Xinyi Cotton Textile Printing and Dyeing; and—Nanjing Xinyi Cotton Textile. No. 2 Shengan Avenue, Binjiang Economic Development Zone, Jiangning, Nanjing. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Aerospace Engineering Research Institute; —Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Qinhuai Innovation Research Institute; —Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Shenzhen Research Institute; —Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Suzhou Research Institute; and —Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Wuxi Research Institute. No. 29 Yudao Street, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China; and No. 29 Jiangjun Avenue, Jiangning District, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China; and No. 29 Binhe East Road, Liyang, Jiangsu, China; and Building 3, Sancai Building, 10 Yongzhi Road, Qinhuai District, Nanjing, China; and Building 6, 78 Keling Road, Science and Technology City, High-tech Zone, Suzhou, China; and No. 40 Renmin South Road, Luoshe Town, Huishan District, Wuxi, China; and Room 218, Zone A, Building R4, Virtual University Park, No. 19, Gaoxin South Fourth Road, Yuehai Street, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China; and No. 69 Feitian Dadao, Jiangning Development Zone, Nanjing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/2020. 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Nanjing University of Science and Technology, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Nanjing University of Science and Technology, Donghai Silicon Material Technology Research Institute; —Nanjing University of Science and Technology, Lianyungang Research Institute; —Nanjing University of Science and Technology, North China Institute; —Nanjing University of Science and Technology, Shuyang Industrial Design and Creative Industry Research Institute; and —Nanjing University of Science and Technology, Taizhou Research Institute. No. 200 Xiaolingwei Street, Xuanwu District, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China; and No. 89 Wenlan Road, Qixia District, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China; and 8 Nujiang Road, Hexi District, Tianjin, China; and No. 2, Chenguang Road, Science and Education Entrepreneurship Park, Lianyungang, Jiangsu, China; and 3-4 Floor, Building A, Software Industry Building, Shuyang County, Suqian City, Jiangsu, China; and Science and Education Entrepreneurship Park, Jingdu Avenue North, Donghai County, Lianyungang, Jiangsu, China; and Mechanical Chemical Experimental Building, No. 8, Meilan East Road, Hailing District, Taizhou City, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20. 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Nanjing Zhihu Information Technology Co., Ltd., Room 605, South Building (Block E), Phase II, Dingye Baitai Biological Building, No. 10 Xinghuo Road, Jiangbei New District, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, China; and Room 412, Main Building, Zhixin Technology Building, No. 15 Xinghuo Road, Jiangbei New District, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4619, 1/16/25.
National Inspection and Testing Holding Group Nanjing National Materials Testing Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Guochang Testing Holding Group Nanjing Guomao Testing Co., Ltd.; —CTCNJ; —Nanjing Guocai Testing Co., Ltd.; and —Nanjing Guocai Testing Co., Ltd. of China Inspection and Testing Holding Group. Building B1, Huizhi Technology Park, No. 8 Hengtai Road, Nanjing Economic and Technological Development Zone, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
National Research Center for Parallel Computer Engineering and Technology, a.k.a., the following one alias: —NRCPC. No. 1 Yinbai Road, Binhu District, Wuxi City, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR)4 | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
National Supercomputing Center Changsha (NSCC-CS), Changsha City, Hunan Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 8527, 2/18/15. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22.
National Supercomputing Center Guangzhou (NSCC-GZ), Sun Yat-Sen University, University City, Guangzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 8527, 2/18/15. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22.
National Supercomputing Center Jinan, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Shandong Computing Center; and —NSCC-JN. No. 1768, Xinluo Street, High-tech Development Zone, Jinan City, Shandong Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 18438, 4/9/21. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22.
National Supercomputing Center Shenzhen, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —The National Supercomputing Shenzhen Center; —Shenzhen Cloud Computing Center; and —NSCC-SZ. No. 9 Duxue Road, University Town Community, Taoyuan Street, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 18438, 4/9/21. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22.
National Supercomputing Center Tianjin (NSCC-TJ), 7th Street, Binhai New Area, Tianjin, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 8527, 2/18/15. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22.
National Supercomputing Center Wuxi, a.k.a., the following one alias: —NSCC-WX. No. 1, Yinbai Road, Binhu District, Wuxi City, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 18438, 4/9/21. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22.
National Supercomputer Center Zhengzhou, a.k.a., the following one alias: —NSCC-ZZ. Southeast of the intersection of Fengyang Street and Changchun Road, Zhongyuan District, Zhengzhou City, China; and 1st Floor, Building 18, Zhengzhou University (South Campus), Zhengzhou City, China; and Room 213, Institute of Drug Research, Zhengzhou University, Changchun Road, High-tech Zone, Zhengzhou City, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 18438, 4/9/21. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22.
National University of Defense Technology (NUDT), a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Central South CAD Center; —CSCC; and —Hunan Guofang Keji University. Garden Road (Metro West), Changsha City, Kaifu District, Hunan Province, China; and 109 Deya Road, Kaifu District, Changsha City, Hunan Province, China; and 47 Deya Road, Kaifu District, Changsha City, Hunan Province, China; and 147 Deya Road, Kaifu District, Changsha City, Hunan Province, China; and 47 Yanwachi, Kaifu District, Changsha, Hunan, China; and Wonderful Plaza, Sanyi Avenue, Kaifu District, Changsha, China; and No. 54 Beiya Road, Changsha, China; and No. 54 Deya Road, Changsha, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 8527, 2/18/15. 84 FR 29373, 6/24/19, 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22.
Naura Technology Group Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Northern Huachuang; —Beifang Huachuang; —Naura; and —Naura Science & Technology Group. No. 1 Jiuxianqiao East Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
NEL Electronics, (a.k.a., NEL Electronics Pte Ltd), 14K Block 2 YuJingHuaCheng Huaqiang South Road FuTian, Shenzhen, China 518033; and Room 2613, NanGuangJieJia Building ShenNan Road, FuTian, Shenzhen, China 518033 (See alternate address under Singapore) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 67062, 10/31/11.
NetPosa, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Dongfang Netpower Technology Co.;—Dongfang Wangli Technology; and—NetPosa Technologies Ltd. Room 408, 4th Floor, Shining Xueyuan Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Room 3603, Wanda Plaza, No. 555 Xuanwuhu Road, Economic and Technological Development Zone, Urumqi, China; and 26F, BLK C, Wangjing SOHO Tower 2, #1 Futong Ave, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR). | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 85 FR 34505, 6/5/20.85 FR 44159, 7/22/20.
Nettrix Information Industry Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Netrix; —Ningchang Information Industry (Beijing) Co., Ltd. and —Nettrix Information Industry (Beijing) Co., Ltd. 2nd Floor, Block C, No. 27, Phase I, Zhongguancun Software Park, No. 8 Dongbeiwang West Road, Beijing, China; and 3rd Floor, Building 25 , No. 8 Dongbeiwang West Road, Beijing, China; and No. 15, Haitai Huake Street, Huayuan Industrial Zone Tianjin, China; and Building A, No. 66, Yuhua West Road, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China; and Unit 3, Building 4, Shuiquan Wenyuan, Genghis Khan Street, Hohhot, Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, China; and Unit 1, Building 7, Jiajing Garden, Taiyuan, Shanxi, China; and Floor 7204, No. 1180, Yumin Road, Yecheng Fifth Street, Shanghai, China; and No. 88, Nansong Road, Kunshan, Jiangsu, China; and 16th Floor, Building A, Lianhui Technology Innovation Center, No. 88 Lianhui Street, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China; and Unit 2, Building 4, No. 17, Wuyi East Road, Jiangnan District, Nanning, Guangxi, China; and 16th Floor, Building S7, No. 20, Fusan Road, Fuzhou, Fujian, China; and 3rd Floor, Xingchuang Future Technology Park, Hainan Building, No. 5 Guoxing Avenue, Haikou, Hainan, China; and 19th Floor, Unit 3, 2008 New Yangtze River Plaza, No. 2 Youyi Avenue, Wuhan, Hubei, China; and 16th Floor, Zhonghong Plaza, Jiefang East Road, Jinan, Shandong, China; and 6th Floor, Building 6, No. 1 Tongtai Road, Zhengzhou, Henan, China; and Building 2B, Lugulinyu Community, No. 408, Tongzipo West Road, Changsha, Hunan, China; and Unit 2, Building 51, No. 1269, Hubin East Road, Nanchang, Jiangxi, China; and Building 16, No. 69, Furong East Road, Xi'an, Shaanxi, China; and 21st Floor, Building 5, Jiuzhou East Ring Road, Jingyuan Road, Lanzhou, Gansu, China; and Unit 5, Building 8, No. 46, Xichuan South Road, Xining, Qinghai, China; and Apartment 310, Commercial and Residential Building No. 4, Xinchang West Road, Yinchuan, Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, China; and Unit 2, Building 10, No. 1170, Liyushan South Road, Urumqi, Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, China; and No. 8-8, Jinshan South Road, Shenyang, Liaoning, China; and 4th Floor, Building 10, No. 12, Jidian Street, Harbin, Heilongjiang, China; and Building C2, Bingshiqi Road, Changchun, Jilin, China; and Building 10, No. 518, Section 1, Huafu Avenue, Chengdu, Sichuan, China; and Building 1, No. 818, Jiangjun Road, Chongqing, China; and No. 204, Building 5, No. 715, Chuanjin Road, Kunming, Yunnan China; and 20th Floor, Building C7, Desheng Jiangjunshan New Town, Guiyang, Guizhou, China; and Unit 1, Building 2, Gaodujiang South Bank, Lhasa, Tibet Autonomous Region, 1801, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Policy of denial | 90 FR 14048, 3/28/25.
New Faith Enterprise Investment Limited, 11/F, Catic Plaza, 8 Causeway Road, Causeway Bay, Hong Kong; and Unit E&F, 13/F Wang Cheong, Commercial Building, No. 249-253 Reclamation St., Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
New H3C Semiconductor Technologies Co., Ltd., No. 1, Floor 1, Unit 1, Building 4, No. 219, Tianhua 2nd Rd., Chengdu High-Tech Zone, China (Sichuan) Pilot Free Trade Zone, China; and Beijing Branch—Room 401, 4th Floor, Building 1, No. 8 Yard, Yongjia North Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Shanghai Branch—No. 666 Shengxia Rd., 122 Yindong Rd., China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319. 11/26/21. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22.
New Wally Target International Trade Co., Limited, 91-97 Jervois Street, Tung Lee Commercial Building, 19th Floor, Room B3, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Newsuntech Electronics Limited, a.k.a. the following one alias: —Hong Kong New Santai Electronics Co., Ltd. Unit 205, Unit C, 2/F, Kwong On Bank Mongkok Branch Building, 728-730 Nathan Road, Mong Kok, Hong Kong; and Room 606 Chevalier House, 45-51 Chatham Road South, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Ninehead Bird Semiconductor, RM 15, Jufu Ge, Caifu Bld, Caitian Road, Futian Qu, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518033, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.
Ningbo Institute of Materials Technology and Engineering, a.k.a., the following eight aliases: —Ningbo Institute of Materials; —CNITECH; —Ningbo Inst of Mat Tech & Eng; —Qianwan Institute of CNITECH; —Ningbo Inst. Of Materials Tech; —Ningbo Institute of Mat; —Ningbo Institute of Materials Technology and Engineering, Chinese Academy of Sciences; and —CAS Ningbo Institute of Materials Technology and Engineering. 1219 West Zhongguan Road, Zhenhai District, Ningbo, Zhejiang, 315201 P.R. China; and 519 Chuangshi Road, Zhenhai, Ningbo, China; and 519 Zhuangshi Ave., Ningbo, China; and Science Torch Building, Canhai Road, Ningbo, China; and No. 1 West Zhongshan Rd., Ningbo, China; and Zhongchuang 1st Road Hangzhou Bay New Zone, Ningbo, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Ningbo Nanda Optoelectronic Materials Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Ningbo Nata; —Ningbo NTU; and —Ningbo NTU Optoelectronics. No. 233, Yangzhou'ao Road, Chaiqiao Street, Beilun District, Ningbo, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Ningbo Semiconductor International Corporation (NSI), No. 331-335 Anju Road, Xiaogang Street, Beilun District, Ningbo, Zhejiang, China; and 1MC07, Jiuzhou Center, No. 95, Lane 85, Cailun Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.11 and 744.23(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20. 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
North Huawei Communication Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Northern Integrated Circuit Technology Innovation Center (Beijing) Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Semiconductor Technology Innovation Center (Beijing) Corp.; —STIC; —STIC BJ; —Northern Integrated Circuit Innovation Center; and —STIC Northern Integrated Circuit Technology Innovation Center (Beijing) Co., Ltd. First Floor, Building 9, No. 18 Wenchang Avenue, Beijing Economic and Technological Development Zone, China; and 34M3 plot of land in the core area of Beijing Economic and Technological Development Zone, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.4(a)(9), 734.9(e)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) 5 | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Northwest Institute of Nuclear Technology in the Science Research (NINTF), Xi'an, Shanxi; and P.O. Box 69-12, Xi'an, Shaanxi Province 710024. | For all items subject to the EAR. | See § 744.2 of this part | 64 FR 28909,5/28/99.75 FR 78883,12/17/10.77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
Northwestern Polytechnical University, a.k.a. the following ten aliases: —Northwest Polytechnic University; —Northwest Polytechnical University; —Northwestern Polytechnic University; —Northwestern Polytechnical University, Beijing Research Institute; —Northwestern Polytechnical University, Chongqing Innovation Center; —Northwestern Polytechnical University, Collaborative Innovation Center; —Northwestern Polytechnical University, Ningbo Research Institute; —Northwestern Polytechnical University, Qingdao Research Institute; —Northwestern Polytechnical University, Shenzhen Research Institute; and —Northwestern Polytechnical University, Yangtze River Delta Research Institute. 127 Youyi Xilu, Xi'an 710072 Shaanxi, China; and Youyi Xi Lu, Xi'an, Shaanxi, China; and No. 1 Bianjia Cun, Xi'an, China; and West Friendship Rd. 59, Xi'an, China; and 3 10 W Apt 3, Xi'an, China; and Yard 5, Yangfangdian East Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and 20th Floor, Block B, Innovation Building, 17 Laodong South Road, Xi'an, China; and 25th Floor, Shenzhen Sanhang Technology Building, Northwestern Polytechnical University, No. 45, Gaoxin South 9th Road, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China; and Building 4, Phase II, Qingdao Blue Valley Venture Center, Jimo District, Shandong Province, Qingdao City, China; and Lane 218, Qingyi Road, High-tech Zone, Ningbo, China; and 27 Zigang Road, Science and Education New Town, Jiangsu Province, Taicang City, China; and Building A2, Liangjiang Quaker Headquarters City, No. 598 Liangjiang Avenue, Longxing Town, Yubei District, Chongqing, China; and Block A, No. 515 Shennan Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 66 FR 24266, 5/14/01. 75 FR 78883, 12/17/10. 77 FR 58006, 9/9/12. 81 FR 64696, 9/20/16. 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22. 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Nuopuxun Electronic Technology Co., Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Shenzhen Nuopuxun Electronic Technology Co., Ltd. Huishang Center 3809, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and No. 4 Longshan 4th Road, Building F, Floor 2, Third Industrial Zone, Songgang Community, Bao'an District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518015, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
O-Nice Trading Co. Limited, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —O-Nice; —Shenzhen Penghuaxin Technology Co., Ltd.; and —SZPHX Tech. Room A838, Huameiju CBD Building, Xinhu Road, Bao'an District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518000, China; and Room 14, 29/F, Ho King Commercial Centre, 2-16 Fa Yuen St., Mong Kok, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
OEM Hub Co Ltd, Rm 3208 32/F Central Plaza, 18 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong; and Flat/RM 2309, 23/F, Ho King COMM Center, 2-16 Fa Yuen Street, Mongkok KLN, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 67062, 10/31/11.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Onstar Electronics Co. Ltd., No. 45 Hoi Yuen Road, Yau Lee Center, 3rd Floor, Unit 83, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Zhonghang Road, Dynamic World Building Room 811, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518031, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
OnTime Electronics Technology Company, Room 609-610 6/F Boss Commercial Center, 28 Ferry Street, Jordon, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 36519, 6/28/10.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Opturn Co., Ltd., a.k.a. the following one alias: —Beijing Outang Technology Co., Ltd. Yingzhi Building, No., 49-3, Suzhoujie Street, Beijing, China; and Room 301, Building 3, Northwest District, Suzhou Nano City, Suzhou Industrial Park, Suzhou, China; and Room 102, Block B, Oriental Hope Building, No. 3 Gaopeng Avenue, High-tech Zone, Chengdu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
ORICAS Import and Export (Beijing) Corporation, a.k.a., and the following two aliases: —ORICAS; and —Dongfang Guoke (Beijing) Import and Export Co., Ltd. Floor 21, Internet Finance Center, 1 Danling Street, Beijing, China; and Room 1406, 1408, 14th Floor, No. 67 Fucheng Road, Beijing, China; and 114 Nanta Street, Shenyang, China; and 2699 Qianjin Street, Changchun, China; and 508, Life Science Building, Vangu Jianchiang Road, Changchun, China; and No. 600, Dunyu Road, Hangzhou, China; and No. A-2, West 3rd Ring North Road, Beijing, China; and No. 18, Shilongshan Road, Hangzhou, China; and No. 3, Shuyuan East Road, Xian, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Oriental Crystal Microelectronics Technology (Qingdao) Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Dongfang Jingyuanwei Electronic Science & Technology (Qingdao) Co., Ltd. No. 9 Chengye Road, Room 306, 3rd Floor, Office Building, West Coast Comprehensive Bonded Zone, Qingdao, China and Room 306, Floor 3, No. 9 Chengye Road, Xihaian Integrated Free Trade Zone, Qingdaopian District, China Pilot Free Trade Zone, Qingdao, Shandong, 266000, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Oriental Crystal Microelectronics Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Dongfang Jingyuanwei Electronic Science and Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. No. 888, Huanhu West 2nd Road, Building C, Lingang New Area, Shanghai, China and Floor C, No. 888 Huanhu W 2nd Road, Lingang Xinpian District, China Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Oriental Logistics Group LTD, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Oriental Air Transport Service Ltd. Room 2114, 21/F., Shenhua Commercial, Bldg., No. 2018 Jiabin Rd., Luo Hu District, Shenzhen, China 418001; and Unit B, 10th Floor, United Overseas Plaza, No. 11, Lai Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Origin Quantum Computing Technology (Hefei) Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Origin Quantum; —Origin QC; —Hefei Origin Quantum Computing Technology Co., Ltd.; and —Hefei Benyuan Quantum Computing Technology Co., Ltd. Building D8, Zhongan Chuanggu Science and Technology Park, No. 900, Wangjiang West Road, Shushan District, Hefei, China; and 6th Floor, Building E2, Phase II, Innovation Industrial Park, No. 2800, Chuangxin Avenue, High-tech Zone, Hefei, China; and No. 104, Building 21, Maker Mansion, No. 2039, South Section of Tianfu Ave., Tianfu New District, Chengdu, China; and Room 101, Floor 2-6, Building 5, East District, No. 10 Northwest Wangdong Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
Panda International Information Technology Company, Ltd., 7/F, B Tower, Yingwu Conference Center, No. 6. Huayuan Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Rm 606 Block B, Beijing Agricultural Science Building, Shugang Garden Haidian Middle Rd, Beijing, China | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 36202, 6/26/14.
Panda Semiconductor, Room 2, Unit A 14/F Shun on Commercial building, 112-114 Des Voeux Road, Central, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Peac Institute of Multiscale Science, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Peak Multiscale Science Institute; and—Peak Multi-Scale Scientific Research Institute. 111, 1st Section, Northern 2nd Ring Road, Chengdu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 34497, 6/5/20.
Peaceful Vision (Lianyungang) Electronic Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Hangxing Electronics (Lianyungang) Co., Ltd; and—Peaceful Vision Co., Ltd. No. 1 Changxing Road, Song Economic High-tech Zone, Lianyungang, Jiangsu, China; and No. 1 Changxing Road, Songtiao Hi-Tech Industrial Development Zone, Lianyungang, Jiangsu, China; and 20K, West Building, Science and Technology Capital, 668 Beijing East Road, Huangpu District, Shanghai, China; and Room 601, Unit 4, Building 5, Yufu Jiayuan, Yuquan Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and 4201A, 42/F, SEG Plaza, Shennan Middle Road, Shenzhen, China; and Room 813 8/F Hung Hom Commercial Center Block A 39 Ma Tau Wai Road, Hung Hom, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Peaktek Company Ltd., Room 803, Chevalier Building, 45-51 Chatham Road, South Kowloon, Hong Kong. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Peng Cheng Laboratory, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Pengcheng Laboratory; —Peng Cheng Lab; —Pengcheng Lab; —Shenzhen Provincial Laboratory of Cyberspace Science and Technology; and —PCL. No. 2 Xingke First Street, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and Building 8, Phase 1, Vanke Cloud City, Liuxiandong, Xili Street, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China; and Wan Ke Yun Cheng, Yi Qi 8 Dong, Shenzhen, China. Zhigu 2nd Street, Songbei District, Harbin, Heilongjiang, 15000, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 561, 1/6/25.
Pera Global, a.k.a. the following three aliases: —Anshi Asia Pacific; —Anshi Asia-Pacific Technology Co., Ltd.; and —Pera Corporation Ltd. Building CN08, No. 1, Balizhuang Dongli, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China; and Room 901, Building 5, Jingyao Qiantan, No. 36, Pingjiaqiao Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai; and Room 313, Neusoft Software Park, No. 1000 Ziyue Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, China; and Room 02, 03, 7th Floor, No. 201, Century Avenue, (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, China; and Unit 2602-2607, Building 2, International Finance Center, No. 1, Section 3, Hongxing Road, Jinjiang District, Chengdu, China; and A730, Lidu Plaza, No. 8, Dakejia Lane, Jinjiang District, Chengdu City, Sichuan Province, China; and Unit 01, Building 1, Block 16, Helenbergh Creative Park, No. 329, Yushan West Road, Panyu District, Guangzhou, China; and 18th Floor, Building D1, Science and Technology City, No. 32, Dazhou Road, Yuhuatai District, Nanjing, China; and Room 605, Office Building, Wanda Center, No. 96, Linjiang Avenue, Jiyu Bridge, Wuchang District, Wuhan City, China; and Room 2210, Guomao Building, No. 38 Qingnian Road, Yuzhong District, Chongqing, China; and Room 1508/1509, Block A, Haixing City Plaza, No. 37 Keji Road, Hi-tech Industrial Development Zone, Xi'an City, China; and Room 505, Building B01, International Software Park, Hunnan District, Shenyang City, China; and Room 1301, 13/F, Baofa Commercial Building, 20 Austin Road, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Physike Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., and the following three aliases: —Beijing Feisco Technology Co., Ltd.; —Physike Hong Kong Tech Co., Ltd.; and —Physike HK Technology Co., Ltd. 1st Floor, Building 19, Guanghua Entrepreneurship Park, Beijing, China; and 1st Floor, No. 38 Tieling Road, Shanghai, China; and Building 27, Tong Sha Ke Cuang Industrial Park, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Pinky Trading Co., Ltd., 338 Queen's Road, Central, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Piotech., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Tuojing Technology; and —Shenyang Tuojing Technology Co., Ltd. No. 900, Shuijia, Hunnan District, Shenyang, China; and No. 1 Xinyuan Street, Shenyang, China; and A072, Floor 3, Building 3, International Enterprise Center Phase 3, No. 1 Guanggu Avenue, Wuhan, China; and Room 217, 2nd Floor, Building 6, No. 16 Hongda North Road, Beijing, China; and Room 403, Floor 4, Building 1, No. 501 Xuri Road, Lingang New Area, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Piotech (Beijing) Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Tuojing (Beijing) Co., Ltd. Room 217, Building 6, No. 16 Hongda North Road, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Piotech (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Tuojing (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Room 304, Building 10, No. 1211 Hongyin Road, Lingang New Area, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Piotech Chuangyi (Shenyang) Semiconductor Equipment Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Tuojing Chuangyi (Shenyang) Semiconductor Equipment Co., Ltd. Building 2 and Building 3, No. 900, Shuijia, Hunnan District, Shenyang, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Piotech Jianke (Haining) Semiconductor Equipment Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Tuojing Jianke (Haining) Semiconductor Equipment Co., Ltd.; —Tuojing Keyscience (Haining) Semiconductor Equipment Co., Ltd.; and —Piotech Keyscience (Haining) Semiconductor Equipment Co., Ltd. Building 3, No. 8 Xinzhong Road, Haining Economic Development Zone, Jiaxing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Piraclinos Limited, 7/F MW Tower, 111 Bonham Strand, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Pishan Haishi Yong'an Electronic Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —PiShan Haishi YongAn Electronic Technology Co., Ltd.; and —Pishan Haishi Yongan Electronic Technology Co., Ltd. No. 28, Guma North Road, Pishan County, Hotan Prefecture, Xinjiang, 845150 China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 18985, 3/30/23.
Planet Technology, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Planet Technology (Hong Kong) Ltd.; —Planet Technologies; —Planetec; —Stellar Technology (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd.; and —Pailai (Shanghai) Trading Co., Ltd. 15th Floor, New Times Center, 391-407 Jaffe Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong; and Room 2116, 21st Floor, Elevator No. 12, East District, Huaneng Building, No. 2068, Shennan Middle Road, Huaqiangbei Street, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and Room 1604, West Tower, Zhongrong Hengrui Building, No. 560 Zhangyang Road, Pudong, Shanghai, China; and Room 2002, Wuxing Nianhua Business Building, No. 139 Hanzhong Road, Qinhuai District, Nanjing City, Jiangsu Province, China; and Room 805, Block 1, Guanghua Chang'an Building, No. 7 Jianguomen Inner Street, Dongcheng District, Beijing, China; and Room 13-2-407, Phase III, New Territories, No. 85, East 3rd Street, Taipingyuan, Wuhou District, Chengdu City, Sichuan Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Poly Asia Pacific Ltd., (PAPL), a.k.a., the following alias:—Beijing Oriental Vision Petroleum Technology Company Limited (OVTEK-P). Room 1103, Hang Seng Mongkok Building, 677 Nathan Road, Mongkok, Kowloon Hong Kong; and Suite 803, Tower A. Olympic City, Fortune Centre, Beiyuan Road, Chaoyan, District Beijing, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Poly Technologies Inc., 11F Poly Plaza, 14 Dongzhimen Nandajie, Beijing China; and 27 Wanshoulu, Haidian district, Beijing, China | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 36202, 6/26/14.
PRC Lode Technology Company, a.k.a., the following the following five aliases:—Lode International Limited;—Lode Technology Company;—Beijing Lode Technology Company, Ltd.;—Beijing Nuodian Keji Youxian Gongsi; and—Beijing Nuodian Technology. Room 8306 Kelun Building, 12A Guanghua Road, Chaoyang, Beijing 100020, China; and Room 801, Unit 1, Building 8 Caiman Street, Chaoyang Road, Beijing 100025, China; and Building 1-1, No. 67 Caiman Str., Chaoyang Road, Beijing 100123, China; and Room A407 Kelun Building, 12A Guanghua Road, Chaoyang, Beijing 100020, China; and Rm 602, 5/F, No. 106 NanHu Road, ChaoYang District, Beijing, China; and Suite 801, Unit 1, Building 8 Caiman Street Finance & Economics Center, Chaoyang Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing; and Suite 306, Lianhua Building No. 159 Tianzhou Road, Xuhui District, Shanghai 200233; and Suite 6B3, Building 15, No. 300 Tianlin Road, Xuhui District, Shanghai 200233; and Suite 1901, Unit 1, Block 8, District E, Ziwei Garden City, Chang'an Technological Garden, Xi'an, 710119; and Suite 2002, Unit 4, Building 1 Zhongda Junyue Jinsha Phase 3 No. 15 Jinxiang Road, Qingyang District, Chengdu, 610031; Suite 1506, Building 4, Dachengxiaoshi, No. 10 Qingjiang Zhong Road, Qingyang District, Chengdu 610072; and Suite 904, Building A6, Shunfeng Emerald Garden, No. 168 Zhaofeng Road, Shijing, Baiyun District, Guangzhou, 510410; and No. 1263 Airport Road, Baiyun District, Guangzhou; and Suite 201, Tower A, Building 14, Qianxihe Garden Center, Nanchang, 330002; and Room 1019—1020 Nan Fung Centre, 264—298 Castle Peak Road, Tsuen Wan New Territories, Hong Kong; and Room 1522 Nan Fung Centre, 264—298 Castle Peak Road, Tsuen Wan New Territories, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 44683, 8/1/14. 80 FR 69856, 11/12/15. 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
PT Technology Asia Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias: —PT-Technology Asia Limited. 615-617 Tai Nan West Street, Park Fook Industrial Building, Room 623, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Wah Kit Commercial Building, 11th Floor, Room B, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong. (See alternate address under Finland). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
PXW Semiconductor Manufactory Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —Peng Chip; —Shenzhen Peng Xin Wei IC Manufacturing; —Shenzhen Pengxin Micro Integrated Circuit Manufacturing Co., Ltd.; —PengXinWei; —PXW; —PXWSemi; and —Pengxin Micro. Room 727, Shanxia Building, No. 160, Xinxia Avenue, Shanxia Community, Pinghu Street, Longgang District, Shenzhen, 518111, China; and Building D, Zhongke Valley Industrial Park, Zhonghuan Avenue, Shanxia Community, Pinghu Street, Longgang District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.4(a)(9), 734.9(e)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) 5 | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/2022. 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Qianpu Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following eleven aliases: —Beijing JDK Electrical Equipment Business Center; —Beijing JingDaKaiYue Electrical Equipment Business Center; —Forward Enterprise; —Forward Enterprises (Hong Kong) Ltd.; —Forward Group Ltd.; —JDK Electrical & Mechanical Equipment Business Center; —Qianpu (Beijing) Technology Co., Ltd.; —Qianpu Enterprise (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd.; —Speedy Enterprise Ltd.; —Speedy Enterprises; and —Step Forward Group Ltd. 1807, Floor 15, Office Building 2, No. 6 Courtyard, Futong East St., Chaoyang District Beijing, Beijing, 100000 China and Room 1807, Site B, Focus Square International Center, No. 6 Futong East Ave., Chaoyang District, Beijing, China; and Unit 1021, 10th Floor, Ocean Center, Harbor City, 5 Carton Road, TST, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 508, Site D, Xinyuan Xingyuan International Plaza, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China; and Unit D, 10th Floor, China Overseas Building, 139 Hennessy Road, Wanchai Hong Kong; and Room 1705, Site E, Xingyuan International Plaza Chaoyang District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Qihoo 360 Technology Company, No. 6 Jiuxianqiao Rd., Building No. 2, 3/F, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China; and No. 188-218 Shuangbin Road, Qingpu District, Shanghai 200001, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 34497, 6/5/20.
Qing'an International Trading Group, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Qing'an International Trading Group Company; and—Qing'an Company Shenzhen Station; and—China Qing'an International Trading Group. No. 27 Xiaoyun Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100027, China; and Room 901, Qing An Building, No. 27, Xiaoyun Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China 100027, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 44683, 8/1/14.
Qingdao National Laboratory of Marine Science and Technology, a.k.a., the following one alias: —QNLM. 168 Wenhai Middle Rd., Aoshanwei, Jimo District, Qingdao, Shangdong, China, 266237. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR)4 | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Qingdao Sophgo Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Qingdao Suanneng; and —Qingdao Sophon. Room 501, Building 20, Zone C, Kechuang Huigu (Qingdao) Science and Technology Park, No. 2 Xiuyuan Road, High-tech Zone, Qingdao, Shandong Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4622, 1/16/25.
Qingxin Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a. the following two aliases: —Clean Chip; and —Clean Chip HK. 15th Floor, Wan Zhaofeng Centre, 133 Hoi Bun Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Quanjiao Nanda Optoelectronic Materials Ltd. a.k.a., the following one alias: —Quanjiao Nata. No. 686-688, Xincheng Avenue, Shitan Industrial Park, Shizi Town, Quanjiao County, Chuzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Quantum Science and Technology Yangtze River Delta Industrial Innovation Center, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Suzhou Institute of Quantum Science and Technology of China Academy of Electronics Sciences. Room 101, Block 9C, Start-Up Zone, Yangtze River Delta International R&D Community, No. 286, Qinglonggang Road, Xiangcheng District, Suzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
QuantumCTek Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases:—HKUST National Shield Quantum Technology Co., Ltd.;—HKUST Guodun Quantum Technology Co., Ltd.;—National Shield Quantum; and—Anhui Quantum Communication Technology Co., Ltd. Floor 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 of Building D3, 800 Wangjiang West Road, High-tech Zone, Hefei, Anhui, 230088, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Quliang Electronics Co., Ltd., No. 368 Jianxing Road, Integrated Circuit Science Park, Jinjiang City, Quanzhou, Fujian Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4622, 1/16/25.
Raintree Scientific Instruments (Shanghai) Corporation, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —RSIC Scientific Instruments (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.; and —Ruili Scientific Instruments (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Building 6, Zhangjiang Pioneer Park, No. 68 Huatuo Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, China; and First Floor, Building 2, Chenghe Innovation Research Center, No. 48 Gubo Road, Pudong New District, Shanghai, China; and Building A8 No. 38 Dongsheng Road, Shanghai Xinfa Chuangyun Industrial Park (Northeast Gate 2), Pudong New Area, Shanghai, China; and No. 777, Jianshe West Road, Binhu District, Jiangsu Zhuosheng Microelectronics Co., Ltd., Binhu District, Wuxi, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Raven International Trade Limited, No. 19 Jingping Road Fuchun Street, Fuyang Hangzhou Zhejiang, China; and Flat B, 9/F, Mega Cube, No. 8 Wang Kwong Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
Ray Hui, Units 801-803 and 805, Park Sun Building, No. 97-107 Wo Yi Hop Road, Kwai Chung, N.T., Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 44824, 9/4/18.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Rayscience Optoelectronics Innovation Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Collective Enterprise Limited. 3rd Floor, Building 47, No. 2338, Duhui Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, China; and 5F, Building 21, Douhui Road 2338 Lane, Shanghai, China; and Ste. 306, Building 1, Shennan Road 59, Shanghai, China; and Unit 3A, 5F, Far East Consortium Building 21 Des Voeux Road Central HK01, Hong Kong; and Flat B 607, 6/F Jumbo Industrial Building, Hong Kong; and Room 2107, 21/F CCWU Building, 302-308 Hennessy Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.3(d) of the EAR88 FR 13675, 3/6/23. | 89 FR 14405, 2/27/24.
Reekay Technology Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Reekay Technology. Suite 502, 5th Floor Arion Commercial Centre, No. 2-12 Queens Road West, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 69856, 11/12/15.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Robotronix Semiconductors Limited, 89 Lockhart Road, Wan Chai Central Building, 4th Floor, Room 401, Wan Chai, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
ROFS Microsystems, No. 92 Weijin Road, Tianjin, China 300072; and 3rd Floor, Room 316, A2 Building, Tianjin University Science Park, No. 80, 4th Avenue, Tianjin Economic Development Area (TEDA), Tianjin, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
Roin Luo, Room 2114, 21/F., Shenhua Commercial, Bldg, No. 2018 Jiabin Rd, Luo Hu District, Shenzhen, China 518001. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
ROV Solutions, Rm. 1014 Favour Industrial Centre, 2-6 Kin Hong Street Kwai Chung Hong Kong. (see alternate address under Georgia). | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Rui En Koo Technology Co. Ltd, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Rui En Koo Technology; and —Rui En Ke Technology Co. Ltd. 59 King Yip Street, King Yip Factory Building, 7th Floor, Room B22, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Fenghuang Street, Nantaiyun Chuanggu Center Building 4, Room 1202, Guangming District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518132, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Ruili Microelectronics Equipment (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., a.k.a, the following two aliases: —Raintree Microelectronics; and —RSIC Microelectronics. B1, 2nd Floor, No. 88 Taigu Road, Shanghai, China; and Kailong Technology Building, Lane 3166, Longdong Avenue, Pudong New District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
RYX Electronic (HK) Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias: —RYX Electronic Limited. Shenfang Building, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518028, China; and 3rd Floor, Wing Tat Commercial Building, 121-125 Wing Lok Street, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
S&C Trade PTY Company Limited, Room 203, B, Lijingshangwu, No. 57 Busha Road, Buji Longgang, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
Sangon Biotech (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Shanghai Shenggong Biotechnology Service Co. Ltd.; —Shenggong Biotechnology (Shanghai) Co. Ltd.; —Shenggong Biotechnology; —Sangon Biotech Technology Service Co., Ltd.; and —Shanghai Bioengineering Co., Ltd. No. 698 Xiangmin Road, Shanghai, China; and 695 Xiangmin Road, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Sansha Highlander Marine Information Technology Co. Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Sansha Highlander Ocean Information Science and Technology Co. Ltd.; and—Sansha Highlander Ocean Information Technology Co. Ltd. Sansha City, Hainan Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Sanya Highlander Huanyu Ocean Information Technology Corporation, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Sanya Highlander Information Technology Co. Ltd. C1902, SP Tower, Tsinghua Science Park, Beijing, China 100084. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Sau Luen Chan, Unit 803, Fourseas Building, 208-212 Nathan Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 803, Fourseas Bldg 208-212 Nathan Rd, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 56003, 9/18/14.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Schmidt & Co., (HK) Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Hing Wah Technology Co. Ltd.; and —Xinghua Scientific Instrument Co. Ltd. No. 210, Building 4B, Honghua Road, Futian Free Trade Zone, Shenzhen, China; and Unit 1703a, 17/F, Nanyang Plaza, 57 Hung To Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Unit 1108, 11/F, Westly Square, 48 Hoi Yuen Road, Kwun Tong, Hong Kong; and Room 8, 3/F, No. 1014 Kwei Tei Street, Hong Kong; and Unit 1406A, 14th Floor, Nanyang Plaza, 57 Hung To Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
Scikro (Hong Kong) Instruments Limited, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Scikro Hong Kong Instrument Limited; and —Scikro Instruments Ltd. Building 46, No. 555, Guiping Road, Shanghai, China; and Building 8, No. 86 Bi Yun Road, Shanghai, China; and 6F, Manulife Place, 348 Kwun Tong Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Acad Bldg., Room 4461, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Scikro (Shanghai) Instrument Co., Ltd., a.k.a. the following one alias: —Saihao (Shanghai) Instrument Co., Ltd. Building 45, No. 555, Guiping Road, Shanghai, China; and Building 46, No. 555, Guiping Road, Shanghai, China; and Building 8, No. 86 Bi Yun Road, Shanghai, China; and Building 1, No. 480 Huapu Road, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Seajet Company Limited, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Hisiang Logistics Company Limited;—Beijing Haixiang International Transport Agency Co., Ltd.; and—GDL Company Limited B-804 SOHO New Town, 88 Jianguo Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100022, China; and Room 1002, LT Square, No. 500, Chengdu North Road, Shanghai, 200003, China; and Unit 1906-2, West Tower, Fortune Plaza, No. 114, Tiyu Dong Rd, Tianhe District, Guangzhou 510620, China; and No. 2, Juhe 6 Street, Jufuyuan, Business Development Tongzhou Di, Beijing, China; and Room 2, A316 Haidin 9 Road, Tianjin, Port Free Trade Zone, Tianjin, China; and 2-403 No.2 Jinsui Lu, Nanfaxin, Shunyi District, Beijing, China; and Room 2201-23, Building (1-5), No. 600 Hengfeng Road, Jing'an District, Shanghai, China, and 404 (8), Zongbao Zone Building, No. 1998, Innovation Avenue, Dongxihu District, Wuhan, China; and Zibian A25 3rd Floor, No. 98 Jianji Road, Haizhu District, Guangzhou, China; and B-807 SOHO New Town, 88 Jianguo Road, Chaoyang District, 100022 Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 44824, 9/4/18. 86 FR 29193, 6/1/21.
Semiconductor Manufacturing International (Beijing) Corporation, a.k.a., the following one alias: —SMIC Beijing. No. 18 Wen Chang Road, Beijing Economic-Technological Development Area, Beijing 100176. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.4(a)(9), 734.9(e)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) 5 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20. 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation (SMIC), a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Semiconductor Manufacturing International (Shanghai) Corporation; —SMIC Shanghai; and —Semiconductor Mfg International Corp. No. 18 Zhang Jiang Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai 201203, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.4(a)(9), 734.9(e)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) 5 | Presumption of denial for all items to include items described in ECCN 3B001.a.4, .c, .d, f.1.b.2, .k to .p; 3B002.c, 3B993, or 3B994. Case-by-case for items designed for production of 200mm wafers destined to a 200mm wafer production facility | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20. 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Semiconductor Manufacturing International (Shenzhen) Corporation, a.k.a., the following one alias: —SMIC Shenzhen. No. 18 Gaoxin Road, Export Processing Zone, Pingshan New Area, Shenzhen, 518118, China; and 1st Lanzhu Avenue, Pingshan Town, Longgang District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518118, China; and Qier Road, Export Processing Zone, Pingshan New Area, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.11 and 744.23(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20. 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Semiconductor Manufacturing International (Tianjin) Corporation, a.k.a., the following one alias: —SMIC Tianjin. No. 19 Xing Hua Avenue, Xiqing Economic Development Area, Tianjin, 300385, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.11 and 744.23(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20. 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Semiconductor Manufacturing South China Corporation, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —SMSC; —SMIC Southern Integrated Circuit Manufacturing Co., Ltd.; —SMIC South; and —SMIC Southern. 5th Floor, Building 3, No. 18 Zhang Jiang Road, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, China; and 18 Zhangjiang Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.4(a)(9), 734.9(e)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) 5 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20. 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
SenseNets, a.k.a., the following six aliases:—Deep Net Vision;—Deep Network Vision;—Sensenets Corporation;—Shenzhen Net Vision;—Shenzhen Shenwang Vision Technology Co., Ltd.; and—Shenzhen Vision. 8th Floor, East Tower, Skyworth Semiconductor Design Building, No. 18 Gaoxin South 4th Road, Yuehai Street, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China; and 16F, China Merchants Development Center, No. 1063, Nanhai Avenue, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 85 FR 34505, 6/5/20.85 FR 44159, 7/22/20.
Sergey Koynov, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Sergey V. Coyne. Room 704 7/F, Landwide Commercial Building, 118-120 Austin Rd, Tsim Sha Tsui, Hong Kong (See alternate address in Russia). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Serko Limited, Room 704 7/F, Landwide Commercial Building, 118-120 Austin Rd, Tsim Sha Tsui, Hong Kong; and Room 1509, Unit A, 15th Floor, Mai Shun Industrial Building, No. 18-24 Kwai Cheong Road, New Territories, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61249, 10/9/12. 80 FR 69856, 11/12/15.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Shaanxi Aerospace Science and Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Xi'an Tianying Industry Co., Ltd.; and —Xi'an Xiangyang Aerospace Industry Head Office. No. 32 Tuanjie South Road, Xi'an High-tech Zone, Shaanxi Province, China; and No. 1, Tianwang Street, Baqiao District, Xi'an, Shaanxi Province, China; and No. 1 Cuihuanan Rd., Xi'an, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Shaanxi Changling Electronic Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—State-owned 782 Factory. No.75 Qingjiang Road, Weibin District, Baoji City, Shaanxi Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Shaanxi Reactor Microelectronics Co., Ltd., Room 301, Block A, Hanyun Tower, Xi'an Software Park, No. 68, Keji 2nd Rd., High-Tech Zone, Xi'an, Shaanxi; and Room 103, Building 3, Zhongfu Commercial Advertising Park, Liuxian 2nd Road, Shenzhen City; and C37, Block C, Langda Plaza, Guzhen Town, Zhongshan City; and Room 604, Building 10, Baofen Yuanyuan No. 165, Baoqing Rd., Zhuangqiao St., Jiangbei District, Ningbo City, Zhejiang Province; and Room 105, Information Building, Three High Tech Road, Shaanxi, Xian, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Shaanxi Yingsaeir Electronic Technology Co. Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Shaanxi Yingsaier Electronic Science & Technology Co. Ltd.; and —Shaanxi Yingsai'er Commerce and Trade Co. Ltd. No. 28 Xinxi Avenue, Zone B of Shaanxi Xi'an Export Processing Zone, 3A Section 6, Xi'an, 710119, China; and No. 10804, Floor 8, Unit 1, Building No. 2, Xibeijiao More Center, Keji 6th Road, Fenghui S. Road, High-Tech Zone, Xi'an, Shaanxi, China; and No. 195 Keji Road, Room 12A06, Block A, Century Yiyuan, Yanta District, Xi'an, Shaanxi, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Shaanxi Zhi En Electromechanical Technology Co., Ltd., Room 11905, Floor 19, Building 1, Daminggong, Wanda Plaza, Taihua North Road, Weiyang District, Xian City, Shaanxi Province, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Shandong Feiyuan Gas Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Feiyuan Gas. No. 5, Road 4, Gaoqing Chemical Industry Park, Gaocheng Town, Gaoqing County, Zibo, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shandong Sheenrun Optics & Electronics Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—China Sheenrun Optics and Electronics Co. Ltd.; and—Jinan Sheenrun Electronics Company Ltd. Room A312, Tower F1 Qilu Software Park, Hi-tech Zone, Jinan, China 250101. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 22640, 4/23/15.
Shandong Xin Yin Bo IOT Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Shandong Xinyinbo IOT Technology Co. Ltd; —Shandong Maojia IOT Technology Co. Ltd.; and —Shandong MaoJiaHuTong IOT Technology Co. Ltd. No. 3809, Cyberport Building, No. 47 Shanda Road, Jinan, Shandong, China; and Room A906, Huaqiang International Center, No. 157 Shanda Road, Jinan, Shandong, China; and 1-1001, Building 5, District 2, Chang'an New Town, Fengtai District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
Shanghai Aerospace Science and Technology Development Co., Ltd., a.k.a. the following two aliases: —Shanghai Astronautical Science-Technology Development Company; and —Shencom. Room A-522, No. 188, Yesheng Road, Lingang New Area, (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Shanghai AGM Gas Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —AGM Gas. Room 220, 2F, No. 1799-6, Wuzhong Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Aipusi Precision Equipment Co., Ltd., Room 402, Building 1, No. 170 Zihai Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Aisinochip Electronics Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Shanghai Aixinnuohangxin Electronic Technology Co., Ltd.; and—Aisino Chip. Building 702, Building 102, Phase 3, Science and Technology Oasis, No. 2570, Hechuan Rd., Minhang District, Shanghai. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Shanghai Aoshi Control Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a. the following two aliases:—Shanghai Hengtong Optic-Electric Technology Co., Ltd.; and—Shanghai Hengtong Photoelectric Technology Co. Ltd. Building 1, No. 618 Chengliu Middle Road, Jiading District, Shanghai; and 1st Floor, Building 2, No. 555 Jiangchang West Road, Jing'an District, Shanghai, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Shanghai Aviation Electronic Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Shanghai Aviation Electronics Company; —Shanghai Avionics Co., Ltd.; —Shanghai Hangkong Dianzi Youxian Zeren Gongsi; and —Shanghai Aviation Electronics Co., Ltd. No. 5, 432 Ziyue Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, China; and 9th Floor, Building 3, Qingyang Headquarters Economic Base, Qingyang District, Chengdu, China; and Building 3, No. 266, Guanghua North Fifth Road, Qingyang District, Chengdu, Sichuan Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Shanghai Biren Information Technology Co., Ltd., Building 2, No. 692 Yongjia Road, Xuhui District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 71992, 10/19/23.
Shanghai Biren Integrated Circuit Co., Ltd., Building 16, Room 1301, 13th Floor, No. 2388 Chenhang Highway, Minhang District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 71992, 10/19/23.
Shanghai Biren Intelligent Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Biren; —Biren Technology; and —Shanghai Biren Technology. Building 16, Room 1302, 13th Floor, No. 2388 Chenhang Highway, Minhang District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 71992 10/19/2023.89 FR 25505, 4/11/24.
Shanghai Bitconn Electronics Co., Ltd., D220, Building 3, No. 4288, Duyuan Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, China 201108; and Room 210, Block D, No. 4288 Duyuan Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, China 201108; and Building 36, No. 70, 4th Floor, Room J1764, Bole Road, Jiading Town, Jiading District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
Shanghai Breeze Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Shanghai Qingfeng Technology Co., Ltd. Unit B-04 Huashen Road, Shanghai, China; and Room 1008, Building 6, Lingkong Soho, No. 968 Jinzhong Rd., Changning District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Shanghai Breeze Technology Jiangsu Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Shanghai Qingfeng Technology Jiangsu Co., Ltd. North of Lingxiao Road, Xitong Science and Technology Industrial Park, Tongzhou District, Nantong, Jiangsu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Shanghai Cable Offshore Engineering Co., Ltd., Room 910, 9th/10th Floor, No. 825 Yingkou Road, Yangpu District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Shanghai Cambricon Information Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a. the following eight aliases: —Shanghai Cambrian Information Technology; —Shanghai Cambricon IT; —Shanghai Cambrian IT; —Shanghai Cambricon Info Tech; —Shanghai Cambrian Info Tech; —Shanghai Cambricon Information; —Shanghai Cambricon; and —Shanghai Cambrian. No. 888, Huanhu West 2nd Road, Lingang New Area, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone and 888 West Huanhu Road No. 2, Shanghai, China and No. 888 West 2nd Huanhu Road, Shanghai. China and 888 West Huanhu Road No. 2 Nanhui New Town, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, China and Rm 1805, Zhanxiang Plaza Bldg 1 2290 Zuchonggzhi Road, Shanghai, China and Room 1201, 12th Floor, Block D, Beijing, China and No. 176 5, 6 Ling Huallung Chun, Chiung Lin Hsin Chiu Hsien, China and No. 7 Zhichun Road, Haidian Beijing and 11th Layer, Building D, Zhizhen Building No. 7 Zhuchun Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Shanghai Center for Quantum Science Research, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —SRCQS; —Shanghai Institute for Advanced Studies Center for Quantum Engineering; and —USTC Shanghai. 99 Xiupu Road, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
Shanghai Feiai Technology Co., Ltd., Room 204A, Building 5, No. 600, Ningqiao Road, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Fengjin Electronic Technology Co., Ltd., Room 301-331, 3/F, Building 1, No. 400 Fangchun Road, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Shanghai Fudan Microelectronics Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Fudan Micro; —Fudan Microelectronics; —Shanghai Fudan Microelectronics Group Co., Ltd.; —FMSH; and —Shanghai Fudan. No. 220, Handan Rd., Shanghai, China; and Building 4, No. 127, Guotai Road, Yangpu District, Shanghai, China; and Rm. 1901-1904, Fudan University, Science Park, No. 11, Guo Tai, Shanghai, China; and Room 423, Block B, Gehua Building, No. 1 Qinglong Hutong, Dongzhimen North Street, Dongcheng District, Beijing, China; and Room 1303, Century Building, Shengtingyuan Hotel Huaqiang Rd. (North), Shenzhen, China; and 423, 4th Floor, No. 1 Qinglong Hutong, Dongcheng District, Beijing, China and Rooms 2306, 2307, and 2308, Building 1, Block C, Section 1, Chuangzhi Cloud City, Xili Community, Liuxian Avenue, Xili Street, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China; and No. 1688 North Guoquan Road, Shanghai, China; and No. 3945, Yixian Road, Baoshan, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR)4 | Presumption of denial. | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Shanghai Fudan Microelectronics (HK) Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases: —HK Fudan; —Shanghai Fudan Microelectronics (HK) Limited; —Hong Kong Fudan Microelectronics; and —Shanghai Fudan Microelectronics (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd. Unit 506, 5F., East Ocean Centre 98 Granville Rd., Tsim Sha Tsui East, Kowloon, Hong Kong. (See alternate address under Singapore and Taiwan) | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Shanghai Fukong Hualong Microsystem Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Hualong Company; and —FKHL. 618-623, C625-628, Zone C, No. 180, Changjiang South Road, Boashan District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR). | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Shanghai Fuwei Xunjie Digital Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Fuwei Xunjie; —FM Swift; —Shanghai Fuwei Swift Digital Technology Co., Ltd.; —Fuwei Swift; and —Shanghai FM Swift Digital Technology Company, Limited. No. 968, 128 Memorial Road, Boashan District, Shanghai, China; and Block B1, Bay Valley Technology Park, No. 1688, Guoquan North Road, Yangpu District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Shanghai Haisi Technology Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Shanghai High-Performance Integrated Circuit Design Center, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Shenwei Micro; and —Shanghai High-Performance IC Design Center. No. 399, Bi sheng Road, Zhangjiang Hi-Tech Park, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, China; and 428 Zhanghen Rd, Zhangjiang High Tech Park, Pudong District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 18438, 4/9/21. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22.
Shanghai HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd., Room 101, No. 318, Shuixiu Road, Jinze Town (Xiqi), Qingpu District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Shanghai Huada Jiutian Information Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Shanghai Huada; and —Shanghai Empyrean. Floor 10, Building C, No. 1867, Zhongke Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, China; and Building C, No. 888, Huanhu West 2nd Road, Lingang New Area, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Institute of Optics and Fine Mechanics, a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —SIOM; —CAS SIOM; —Hangzhou Spectrometer Laser PH; —Lab of Information Optics; —Shanghai Institute of Optics; —Shanghai Institute of Optics & Fine Mechanics; and —SIOM Chinese Academy of Sciences. No. 899, Huiwang East Road, Jiading District, Shanghai, China; and No. 390, Qinghe Road, Jiading District, Shanghai, 201801, China; and 295 Tacheng Road, Jiading, Shanghai, China; and 52 Sanlihe Road, Shanghai, China; and 768 Zhaojiabang Road, Shanghai, China; and 9900 North Shengxin Road, Shanghai, China; and 200 Zhaoxian Rd, Jiading District, Shanghai, China; and No. 4775, Shuangzhu Road, Shanghai, China; and Rm. 904-905, Kuen Yang International Business Plaza, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 561, 1/6/25.
Shanghai Integrated Circuit Equipment & Materials Industry Innovation Center Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases: —CICEM; —ICRD Innovation Center; —National Integrated Circuit Equipment and Materials Industrial Innovation Center; —ICRD Phase II; and —ICRD Phase 2. No. 497, Loulu Road, Jiading District, Shanghai, China; and No. 497, Gauss Road, Shanghai, China; and No. 497, Gaosi Road, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.4(a)(9), 734.9(e)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) 5 | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Integrated Circuit Research and Development Center, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Shanghai IC R&D Center; and —ICRD. No. 497, Gaosi Road, Zhangjiang Hi-Tech Park, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, China; and No. 3000, Longdong Avenue, Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.4(a)(9), 734.9(e)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) 5 | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/2022. 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai IP3 Information Technology Co. Ltd., No. 68, Zhongchuang Road, Building 16, 2nd Floor, Songjiang District, Shanghai, 200001, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Shanghai Jingce Semiconductor Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Shanghai Precision Measurement; —Shanghai Jingce; and —PMISH. No. 2875, Huqingping Highway, Qingpu District, Shanghai, China; and Floor 1 and 3, Building 1, No. 269 and 299, Shuangbang Road, Xujing Town, Qingpu District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Jingzhuo Information Technology Co., Ltd., 12th Floor, Building B, No. 1-72, Lane 2855, Huqingping Highway, Zhaoxiang Town, Qingpu District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Kaishitong Semiconductor Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Kaishitong Semiconductor; and —Kingstone Semiconductor. Unit 1, Building 7, No. 200 Newton Road, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China; and Unit 1, Building 7, 200 Niudun Road, Shanghai, China; and 211 Qinqiao Road, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Langqing Electronic Technology Co., 1103, Zhejiang Building, Haizhou District, Fuxin City, Liaoning Province, Shanghai 123000, China; and No. 98, Lane 901, Kangye Road, Zone E, 3rd Floor, Room 318, Zhujiajiao Town, Qingpu District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
Shanghai Lingang Kaishitong Semiconductor Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Lingang Kaishitong Semiconductor; and —Lingang Kingstone Semiconductor. Area A, Building 1, No. 88 Wansong Road, Lingang New Area, Shanghai, China; and No. 750, Zhubai Road, Nanhui New Town, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Lizhi Technology Co., Ltd., Room 0248, 2nd Floor, Ji Building, No. 555 Dongchuan Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Micro Electronics Equipment (Group) Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Shanghai Microelectronics (Group) Co., Ltd.; —Shanghai Micro Electronics Equipment Company; —Shanghai Microelectronics Equipment Company; and —SMEE. No. 1525 Zhangdong Road, Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Shanghai Modern Advanced Ultra-Precision Manufacturing Center Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Ultra-Precision Manufacturing Center; —UPEC; and —SHUPEC. No. 396, Minfeng Road, Pudong New District, Shanghai, China and Building 63 East, 100 Handan Road, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Mossel Trade Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Shanghai Nanpre Mechanics Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Micro-Yuan Qimi; —Shanghai Weigao; —Shanghai Microhigh Precision Mechanical Engineering Co., Ltd.; and —Shanghai Micro-High Precision Machinery. No. 1525, Zhangdong Road, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Naura Microelectronics Equipment Co., Ltd., a.k.a. the following two aliases: —Shanghai Naura; and —Shanghai Naura Microelectronics. Building C, No. 888, Huanhu West 2nd Road, Lingang New Area, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Nova Instruments Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Shanghai Weiyi Electromechanical Equipment Co.;—Shanghai Weiyi Mechanical and Electrical Equipment Co., Ltd.;—Shanghai Weiyi Measurement and Control Technology Co., Ltd.; and—Nova Instruments. Rm. 408 Bldg. 3 No 911-11 Hulan Rd., Boashan District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 34497, 6/5/20.
Shanghai QuantumCTek Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Shanghai Guodun Quantum Information Technology Co., Ltd., 3rd Floor, Building 10, 2388 Xiupu Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 201315, China; and 99 Xiupu Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai 201206, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Shanghai Shark Sprite Technology Co., Ltd., Room 1008, Building 6, No. 968, Jinzhong Road, Changning District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Shanghai Sisheng Power Control Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Shanghai Sisheng Technology Co. Room 1127, Building 1, No. 88, Hengxi Road, Shanghai, China; and Room 201, 91 Asan Road. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
Shanghai Siwave Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a. the following six aliases: —Shanghai Xinwu Technology Co., Ltd.; —Xinwu Technology; —SIWAVE; —SIWAVE Technology; —SIWAVE, INC.; and —Si-Wave. No. 333 Huangqing Road, Jiading District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Skyverse Semiconductor Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Shanghai Nanolighting Semiconductor Technology Co., Ltd., Room 303, Building 13, No. 1211 Hongyin Road, Lingang New Area, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Suanhu Technology Co., Ltd., 3rd Floor, Building 2, No. 200 Zhangheng Road, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4622, 1/16/25.
Shanghai Suochen Information Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —DEMX; —DEMXS; and —Suochen Technology. 27 Xinjinqiao Road, Building 13, 2nd Floor, Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China; and 18 Chaoyangmenwai Street, Building A, 21st Floor, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China; and 10 Tuanjie South Road, Building 1, 12th Floor, Room 11206, Unit 1, Gaoxin District, Xi'an, China; and 170-1 Ruanjian Blvd., Building 2, Room 1401, Yuhuatai District, Nanjing, China; and 300 Huaihai Middle Road, K11 Building, 51F, Huangpu District, Shanghai, China; and No. 35 Xueyuan Road, Shining Building, 7th Floor, Room 708, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Tiansuo Technology Park, Building 2, Room 1601, Yuhuatai District, Jiangsu Province, Nanjing, China; and No. 88 Nanguanzheng Street, Chang'an International Center, Building F, 8th Floor, Unit 102, Shaanxi Province, Xi'an, China; and Hongxing Road, IFS, No. 1, Section 3, Building 3, Room 4007, Sichuan Province, Jinjiang District, Chengdu, China; and No. 1515, Zhongshan Avenue, Building 1, Room 1903, Jiang'an District, Wuhan, China; and IFC, T1 Office Building, 31F, Room 3112, Changsha, Hunan, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Shanghai Suowei Information Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Beijing Suowei System Technology Co., Ltd.; and —Sysware. Room 516, Building 20, Lane 8633, Zhongchun Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, China; and Room 2104, No. 70, Caobao Road, Xuhui District, Shanghai, China; and Building 9, Aobei Science and Technology Park, No. 1 Baosheng South Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Shanghai Supercomputing Technology Co., Ltd., Room 105A36, Main Building, No. 99, Huanhu West Road, Lingang New Area, (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 734.9(e) and § 744.11 of the EAR)4 | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Shanghai Xinsheng Jingrui Semiconductor Technology Co., Ltd., 2nd Floor, Building 1, No. 1000, Yunshui Road, Lingang New Area, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Xinsheng Jingtou Semiconductor Technology Co., Ltd., Floor 4, Building 6, No. 1000, Yunshui Road, Lingang New Area, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Xinsheng Jinko Semiconductor Technology Co., Ltd., Area B, 4th Floor, Building 4, No. 1000, Yunshui Road, Lingang New Area, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Xinsheng Semiconductor Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Zingsemi; and —Zing Semiconductor Corporation. Buildings 1-4, 6-19, No. 1000, Yunshui Road, Lingang New Area, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Yanquan Technology Co., Ltd., Building C, No. 888 Huanhu West 2nd Road, Lingang New Area, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Yuliangsheng Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —UEASCEND. Building 1, No. 500 Mindong Road, Pudong New District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Yuwei Semiconductor Technology Co., Ltd, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Shanghai Yuweitek. Building 11, No. 899 Zuchong Road, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Zhichun Alloy Manufacturing Co., Ltd., Room 309, Building 1, No. 170 Zihai Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Zhichun Electronic Technology Co., Ltd., Room 302, Building 10, No. 1211 Hongyin Road, Lingang New Area, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Zhichun Optoelectronic Equipment Co., Ltd., Room D, 2nd Floor, Building 3, No. 880 Ziyue Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Zhichun Precision Gas Co., Ltd., Room 301, Building 1, No. 170, Zihai Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Zhichun Precision Manufacturing Co., Ltd. a.k.a. the following one alias: —Nanolink. Room 305, Building 1, No. 170 Zihai Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Zhichun Purification System Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a. the following five aliases: —Pure Technology; —PNC Process; —PNC Process Systems Co., Ltd.; —PNC Technology Group and —PNC. No. 170 Zihai Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Zhichun Semiconductor Equipment Co., Ltd., Room 304, Building 1, No. 170 Zihai Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Zhichun System Integration Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Pure Integration. 3rd and 4th floors, Building 2, No. 170 Zihai Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Zhijia Semiconductor Gas Co., Ltd., No. 912 J, Yecheng Road, Jiading Industrial Zone, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanghai Zhipu Huanyu Technology Co., Ltd., 3rd Floor, Building 1, No. 400, Fangchun Road, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4619, 1/16/25.
Shanghai Zixi Optical Technology Co., Ltd., Building C, No. 888, Huanhu West 2nd Road, Lingang New Area, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shanxi Eagles Men Aviation Science and Technology Group Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Shanxi Yige Siman Aviation Technology Group Co., Ltd.; and —Shanxi EMAST. Zhaidian Industrial Park, Changzhi High-tech Zone, Shanxi Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 9390, 2/14/23.
Sharon Yang, No. 96 Haining Road, Zhifu District, Yantai City, Shandong Province, China | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16. 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
Shengmei Semiconductor Equipment (Beijing) Co., Ltd., Room 905, Floor 9, Building 7, No. 15 Ronghua South Road, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shengmei Semiconductor Equipment Wuxi Co., Ltd., Room 6, Lot J1, Wuxi New District Export Processing Zone, Wuxi, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shengwei Semiconductor Equipment (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Building C, No. 888, Huanhu West 2nd Road, Nanhui New Town, Lingang New Area, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shenyang Xinyuan Micro Business Development Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Kingsemi Micro Business Development Co., Ltd.; and —Core Source Business Development Co., Ltd. Rooms 201 and 202, Building 1, No. 501 Xuri Road, Lingang New Area, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shenyang Xinyuan Microelectronic Equipment Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Kingsemi; —Shenyang Kingsemi Microelectronics Equipment Co., Ltd.; and —Shenyang Core Source. No. 16 Feiyun Road, Hunnan District, Shenyang, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shenzhen Avanlane, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Avanlane Inc. Unit C, D 10/F Shenmao Building News Road, Shenzhen, China; and Rm. 311, 3/F, Genplas Industrial Building, 56 Hoi Yuen Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and 62459-4F East Asia Industrial Building, 2 Ho Tin Street, Tuen Mun, N.T., Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Shenzhen Bailiansheng Electronic Science and Technology Co., Ltd, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Shenzhen Bailiansheng Electronic Technology Co., Ltd. Room 807, Building 125, Baishilong Area 1, Baishilong Community, Minzhi Subdistrict, Longhua District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518131, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Shenzhen BZ Space Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a. the following two aliases: —BZ Space Technology Co., Ltd.; and —BZ Space. 15AB, DuHui Electronic City Building, Huaqiang Rd., Futian, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and No.6 Wai Kwan Road, Yeung Uk Tseun Village, Yuen Long, New Territories, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Shenzhen Caspro Technology Company Limited a.k.a., the following two aliases: —CASPRO Technology Co. Ltd.; and —Shenzhen Casp Technology Co., Ltd. Room 203, B Building, No. 57 Busha Road, Nanwan, Longgang, Shenzhen, China; and Room 802, Building B, No. 50, Zhuangcun Road, Xiner Community, Shajing Street, Bao'an District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
Shenzhen Cobber Information Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following six aliases:—X-Face;—XFaceTech;—Shenzhen Kehao Information Technology Co., Ltd.;—Shenzhen Kepa Information Technology;—Kezhen; and—Cobber. 6th Floor, Block B, Shenzhen Production and Research Base, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, No. 9 Yuexing 3rd Road, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, Shenzhen, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Shenzhen Daotong Intelligent Aviation Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Autel Robotics; and —Daotong Intelligence. 6th Floor, No. 1, Chuangxiangdi, Yanxiang Intelligent Valley, No. 11 Gaoxin West Road, Guangming New District, Shenzhen, China; and Building C1 & B1, Nanshan Zhiyuan, No.1001, Xueyuan Avenue, Xili Street, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China; and Unit 701-702, 7/F, Grandtech Center, 8 On Ping Street, Shatin, N.T., Hong Kong; and Unit 06, Floor 4, 501, 7th Floor, No. 8 Xibinhe Road, Yongdingmen, Dongcheng District, Beijing, China; and Room 405, No. 5, Jixiang 3rd Road, Yixin Community, Pingdi Street, Longgang District, Shenzhen, China; and No. 11303, Unit 1, Building 3, Moore Center, northwest corner of Keji 6th Road, Fenghui South Road, High-tech Zone, Xi'an City, Shaanxi Province, China; and No. 701 on the east side and 701 on the west side of the electronics factory in Building 3, Yanxiang Technology Industrial Park, Gaoxin Road, Dongzhou Community, Guangming Street, Guangming District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Shenzhen Dongpengshang Electronics Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —DPSA Electronics Co., Ltd. Room 5A, 5th Floor, Business Center Building, Shangbu Industrial Zone, Zhenxin Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518028, China; and 4/F, Building 14, Baotian Industrial Zone, Xixiang Residential District, Bao'an District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518102, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Shenzhen Dragonfly Supply Chain Co., Ltd.; a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Shenzhen Small Leopard Electronic Co., Ltd.; and —Shenzhen Xiaobao Electronics Co., Ltd. A-606, Languang Science and Technology Building, No. 7, Songpingshan Xinxi Road, Nanshan Street, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China; and 7, 803, Building A7, Chuangzhi Cloud City, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China; and Building 14, South of the Third Floor, Fuqingshan, Tangtou Third Industrial Zone, Bao'an District, Shenzhen, China; and Building 3, 5th Floor Factory Building, Hengtongfa Industrial Zone, Tangtou Industrial Park, Tangtou Community, Shiyan Street, Baoan District, Shenzhen City, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
Shenzhen Fudan Microelectronics Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Shenzhen Fudan. Rooms 2306, 2307, and 2308, Building 1, Block C, Section 1, Chuangzhi Cloud City, Xili Community, Liuxian Avenue, Xili Street, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Shenzhen Guowei Hongbo Technology Co., Ltd., Room 14C, Guoshi Building, No. 1801 Shahe West Road, High-tech Zone Community, Yuehai Street, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shenzhen Guowei Sensing Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —SMIT Sense. Room 22B, Guoshi Building, No. 1801 Shahe West Road, High-tech Zone Community, Yuehai Street, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China; and Floor 23, Building 3, Chongwen Park, Nanshan Intelligence Valley, No. 3370 Liuxian Avenue, Shenzhen, China; and Floor 23, Building 3, Chongwen Park, Nanshan Zhiyuan, No. 3370 Liuxian Avenue, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96837, 12/5/2024. 90 FR 561, 1/6/25.
Shenzhen Guoweichip Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases: —SMIT Xintech; —Xintech; —Guoweixin; —GWX; and —GWX Technologies. 15th Floor, Guoshi Building, No. 1801, Shahe West Road, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shenzhen HiSilicon Technologies Co., Electrical Research Center, Huawei Base, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Shenzhen Hua'antai Intelligent Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following alias:—Vikor. South of the third floor of U-shaped factory building, Beijing Railway Technology Industrial Park, No. 49 Changjiangpu Road, Henggang Street, Longgang District, Shenzhen, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Shenzhen Huada Jiutianke Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Shenzhen Huada; and —Shenzhen Empyrean. 10th floor, Building E, ShenZhen-Hong Kong International Hi-Tech Park, No. 3 Binglang Rd., Futian District, Shenzhen, China; and Room 1001, Building 5, Northwest Shenjiu Technology Pioneer Park, at the intersection of Taohua Road and Betel Road, Fubao Community, Fubao Street, Futian District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shenzhen Huawei Technical Services Co., Ltd., Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Shenzhen Huawei Terminal Commercial Co., Ltd., Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Shenzhen Huawei Training School Co., Ltd., Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Shenzhen Huayi Loan Small Loan Co., Ltd., Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Shenzhen Institute of Quantum Science and Engineering, a.k.a., the following one alias: —SIQSE. No. 1088 Xueyuan Avenue, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
Shenzhen Iprogift Technology Co., Ltd, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Iprogift Shenzhen Technology Co., Ltd.;—Shenzhen Iprogift Technology; and—Iprogift Shenzhen Technology. New North Door 25H Shenhua Commercial Building, Jiabin Road 2018, Luohu District, Shenzhen, China, 518000; and Floor 2, 4 Bldg., Jinyuan Science and Technology Industry Park, Fengmen Road Bantian Town, Longgang District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Shenzhen Jiachuang Weiye Technology Company, Ltd., a.k.a. the following one alias: —JCWYIC. l9D, Block D, Huaqiang Plaza, Huaqiang North Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and 518 West Building, Feiyada Building, Zhenhua Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, China; and Room 2702, Building A, Jiahe Huaqiang Building, Shennan Middle Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
Shenzhen Jiasibo Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —SHENZHEN JIA SIBO SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. No. 57, Busha Road, Buji, Longgang, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 25505, 4/11/24.
Shenzhen Jingyuan Information Technology Co., Ltd., No. 8 Hongmian Road, Room 401A, Building C, Yingdali Technology Digital Park, Fubao Community, Fubao Street, Futian District, Shenzhen, China and 301F, Suite C, Yingdali Technology Shuma Park, Hongmiandao, Fubao Sub-District, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518015, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shenzhen Legrit Technology Co., Ltd., Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Shenzhen Naura Microelectronics Equipment Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Shenzhen Naura; and —Shenzhen Naura Microelectronics. No. 11, Jinniu West Road, Longtian Street, Pingshan District, Shenzhen, China; and About 40 meters west of Haofang Jingyuan, Yanziling 3rd Road, Pingshan District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shenzhen NetForward Mircroelectronics Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases: —NetForward; —Shenzhen Nanfei Microelectronics Co., Ltd.; —Shenzhen Nanfei Micro-electronic Co., Ltd.; and —Shenzhen Netforward Mircroelectronics Co., Ltd., 2nd Floor, Fengyun Building, No. 25, Gaoxin North 6th Road, Songpingshan Community, Xili Street, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, 518054, China; and 19 Lanrun Morili Center, 12 West 2nd Section, Chengdu, China; and Floor 1, Fengyun Technology Building, No.25, Gaoxinbeiliudao, Xili Sub-District, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518000, China; and Block B, Building 9, Area G, Qingyang Industrial Headquarters Base, Qingyang District, Chengdu, 610073, China and No. 25, Galaxy Wind Cloud, Gaoxin North 6th Road, Nanshan District, Shenzhen City, Guangdong Province, 518000, China; and No. 809, 8th Floor, Building 17, No. 169 Haichang Road, Huayang Street, Tianfu New Area, Chengdu, Sichuan, 610000, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Shenzhen One World International Logistics Co., Limited, Shennan East Road, Hongchang Square Building, 30th Floor, Room 3005, Luohu District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518002, China; and 8 Leung Yip Street, Kar Wah Industrial Building, 7th Floor, Room 18, Yuen Long, Hong Kong; and No. 1 Liyumen Street, Room 201, Building A, Zonghe Office, Qianhai Shenzhen-Hong Kong Cooperation Zone Administration, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Shenzhen Pengxinxu Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Peng Xin Xu; —PingXinXu; —PST; —Shenzhen Pensun Technology Co., Ltd.; and —PXX. Floor 54-56, Building C, Digital Innovation Center, No. 328 Mintang Road, Longhua District, Shenzhen City, Guangdong Province, China; and Room 403, Podium Building, Innovation Plaza, No. 2007, Pingshan Avenue, Liulian Community Pingshan Street, Pingshan District, Shenzhen, China; and 3001 Jin Xiu West Road Pingshan District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.4(a)(9), 734.9(e)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) 5 | Presumption of denial except case-by-case for items not described in ECCN 3B001.a.4, .c, .d, f.1.b.2, .k to .p; 3B002.c, 3B993, or 3B994 | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shenzhen Qianhai Skyverse Semiconductor Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Shenzhen Qianhai Nanolighting Semiconductor Technology Co., Ltd. Room 201, Building A, No. 1 Qianwan 1st Road, Qianhai Shenzhen-Hong Kong Cooperation Zone, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shenzhen Rion Technology, 4/F Block 1. Fuan Second Industrial Park, D Yang Tian, Da Yang Road, Ruyo, Shenzhen, China | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Shenzhen SCH Technology Co., Ltd. a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Shenzhen ShenChuangHui Technology Company; —Shenzhen ShenChuangHui Technology Co. Ltd.; —SCH Electronics Group (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd.; and —SCH. Room 602, 6th Floor, Unit 1, Building 2, Huali Courtyard, 118 Zhenhua Road, Futian, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518031, China; and Room 588, Building 201, Shangbu Industrial Zone, Huaqiang North Rd, Futian, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518028, China; and Room 603, King Han Industrial Building, 8 Wang Guan Road, Kowloon Bay, Hong Kong; and Room 506, 5th Floor, Leader Commercial Building, 54-56 Hillwood Road, Tsimshatsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Shenzhen Shunjinxin Import & Export Co. Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Shenzhen Shunjinxin IMP&Export Co. Ltd. 25H North Door Shenhua Comm. Build., Jiabin Road 2018, Luohu District, Shenzhen, China; and Room 2114, 21/FL Shenhua Commercial Bldg, Luohu District Shenzhen, China, 518001; and Room 815, 8F Zhongzhen Bld., No. 68, Luofang, South Luohu, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Shenzhen SiCarrier Technologies Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following six aliases: —Shenzhen Xinkailai Technology Co., Ltd.; —Shenzhen Xinkailai; —Xinkailai; —SiCarrier; —Huawei Starlight Engineering Department; and —Huawei Starlight Department. Zhongke Industrial Park, Zhonghuan Avenue, Pinghu Street, Longgang District, Shenzhen, China; and No. 91 Xuri East Road, Shanxia Community, Pinghu Street, Longgang District, Shenzhen, China; and Building 6, Zhongke Valley, Longgang District, Shenzhen, China; and No. 368 Tianjiao Road, Chengdu High-Tech Zone, China; and No. 16, Pingle Street, Changhe Street, Binjiang District, Hangzhou City, China; and Building A, Xi'an Software Park, No. 68, Keji 2nd Road, High-Tech Zone, Xi'an City, Shaanxi Province, China; and Building B4, Phase 1, Longshan Innovation Park, Wuhan Future Science and Technology City, No. 999 Gaoxin Avenue, Donghu New Technology Development Zone, Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shenzhen Smartcom Business Co., Ltd., Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Shenzhen Speed Industrial Materials Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following twelve aliases: —SPEEDJET; —Speed Jet; —Speed Waterjet; —Shenzhenspeed Industrial Materials Co., Ltd; —Shenzhen Sipeter Industrial Materials Co., Ltd.; —Speed Industrial Materials (China) Co., Ltd.; —Speed Stainless Steel; —Speed Carbide; —Speed Waterjet Mall; —Huizhou Speed Waterjet Technology Co., Ltd.; —Speed Diamond; and —Speed Nozzle. No. 5003 Longgang Avenue, Room 607E, Xuyuan Building, Nanlian Community, Longgang District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518116, China; and Manjinghua Xiyue Courtyard, No. 6 Yincui Road, Room 409, Building 12, Nanlian Community, Longgang District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and Baomin Road, 6B, Xianji Building, Bao'an District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and No. 155 Baigang Road South, 2nd Floor, Building A, Huicheng District, Huizhou, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Shenzhen True Price Technology Co., Ltd., 605 East Liuxian Avenue, Dingxin Building, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China; and No. 6008 Liuxian Avenue, Xinwei Community, Xili Street, Nanshan District, Shenzhen City, China; and No. 6008 Liuxian Avenue, 605 Dingxin Building, Xinwei Community, Xili Street, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and No. 1001 South, Xueyuan Avenue, Room 508-1, Building C2, Nanshan Zhiyuan, Changyuan Community, Taoyuan Street, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial. See § 746.8 of the EAR | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Shenzhen Xinkailai Industrial Machinery Co., Ltd., Room 1301, Building 6, Zhongkegu Industrial Park, Zhonghuan Avenue, Shanxia Community, Pinghu Street, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shenzhen Xinlikang Supply Chain Management Co., Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Shenzhen Sinlikon Supply Chain Management, Co., Limited. 2001, Xinlikang Intelligent Headquarters Building, No. 2 Taike Road, Meifeng Community, Futian District Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518049, China; and Unit G/01 Grandtech Center, 8 On Ping St, Siu Lek Yuen, Sha Tin District, Hong Kong; and 33rd Floor, Qianhai Xinlikang Building, No. 3044, Xinhai Ave, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China; and 32-34 Floor, Xinlikang Mansion, No. 3044 Xinhai Road, Qianhai Shenzhen—HK Cooperation Zone, Shenzhen, China; and 36/F Tower A, Neo Building, 6011 Shennan Ave, Shenzhen, China; and Shenzhen Sinlikon Building, No 3044 Nanshan St, Qianhaishenggang Cooperation Area, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Shenzhen Yidian Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Shenzhen AEE Technology Co., Ltd.; —Shenzhen Love Wireless Technology Co., Ltd.; and —Ace Electronics Enterprise. 10B-1, Block B, Modern Window Building, Huaqiang North Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, China; and AEE Hi-Tech Park Songbai Road, Shiyan Town, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
Shenzhen Zhangge Instrument Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Shenzhen Zhangge; —Zhangge; and —Shenzhenshi Zhangge Yiqi Youxian Gongsi. Room 135, Longguang Jiuyu Mansion, No. 115 Guanlan Avenue, Xinhe Community, Fucheng Street, Longhua District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Shenzhen Zhipu Future Technology Co., Ltd., Building A701, Vanke Cloud City Phase 6, Dashi 2nd Road, Xili Community, Xili Street, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, China; and C1202, Building 2, Shenzhen Software Industry Base, No. 87, 89, and 91, Gaoxin South 10th Road, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4619, 1/16/25.
Shi Lirong, Yuanzhong Garden Tower A, Room 26A, Futian, Shenzhen, China; and Xinghai Mingcheng, 2nd Floor, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 15461, 3/29/17.
Shihezi Municipality Public Security Bureau, 209 N Fourth Rd., Shihezi City, XUAR 832000, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19.85 FR 44159, 7/22/20.
Shvabe Opto-Electronics Co. LTD., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —UOMZ (Meizhou) Co., Ltd.; —Shvabe Opto-Electronics Shenzhen Co. Ltd.; and —Shvabe Opto-Electronics Meizhou Co. Ltd. 16 A, No. 4044 Pingshan Road, Building 16, Room A, Heping Street, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and No. 4044 Pingshan Road, Investment Building, Room 1619, Heping Street, Pingshan District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518118, China; and No. 20 Meilong Road, Bati Dasha 3rd Floor, Room 303, Meizhou City, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Si'En Qingdao Co. Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Si'EN; —SiEn (Qingdao) Semiconductor Corporation Co.; —SiEn (Qingdao) Integrated Circuits Co., Ltd.; —SiEn; and —XinEn. Building M, No. 1088, Shanwanghe Road, West Coast New District, Qingdao, China; and Room 401, German Enterprise South Zone, No. 19 Taibaishan Road, Huangdao District, Qingdao, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.4(a)(9), 734.9(e)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) 5 | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Sichuan Dingcheng Material Trade Co., Ltd., No. 64 Mianshan Road, Mianyang City, Sichuan, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 34497, 6/5/20.
Sichuan Haitian New Technology Group Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Haitian Group; and— Sichuan Haitian Hi-Tech Group. 64 Mianshan Road, Mianyang City, Sichuan, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 34497, 6/5/20.
Sichuan University, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Sichuan University, Institute of Advanced Polymer Materials; —Sichuan University, Luzhou Industrial Technology Research Institute; —Sichuan University, Qingdao Research Institute; —Sichuan University, Suzhou Research Institute; and —Sichuan University, Yibin Industrial Technology Research Institute. No. 24 South Section 1, Yihuan Road, Chengdu, China, 610065; and No. 29 Jiuyanqiao Wangjiang Road, Chengdu, China, 610064; and People's South Road, Chengdu, China, 610041; and Shuangliu County, Chuanda Road, Chengdu, China, 610207; and Block B, Building 2, Blue Silicon Valley Entrepreneurship Center II, Blue Silicon Valley Core District, Aishanwei Street, Shandong Province, Qingdao City, China; and Room 707, Building 5, Public College, No. 377 Linquan Street, Dushu Lake Higher Education Zone, Suzhou, China; and Yibin Zone of Sichuan University Park, Second section, West Changjiang North Road, Yibin Lingang Economic and Technological Development Zone, China; and No. 264-279, 4th Floor, Area 17, No. 68, Section 1, Yuntai Road, Lingang District, Sichuan Free Trade Zone, China; and Jiang'an Campus, Sichuan University, 2nd Section, Chuanda Road, Shuangliu District, Sichuan Province, Chengdu City, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case basis | 77 FR 58006, 9/19/12. 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Sichuan Zhonghe Import and Export Trade Co., Ltd., Building 26, No. 169-185, West Third Section, First Ring Road, Jinniu District, Chengdu, China; and No 169, West Section, Yihuan Road, Chengdu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 34497, 6/5/20.
Sigma Technology Limited, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Sigma Technology; and —Sigma Technology Ltd. 45-51 Chatham Road South, Chevalier House, Room 803, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and 9 Choi Yuen Road, Units 223-226, 2/F, High Tech Center, Hong Kong; and 9 Choi Yuen Road, Units 303-304, 3/F, High Tech Center, Hong Kong; and 283 Shaukeiwan Road, 05, 15/F, Seaview Plaza, Shaukeiwan, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.2l(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Signet Express Co., Ltd., Room 9-11, 5/F, Block B, Hoplite Industrial Centre, 3-5 Wang Tai Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 7359, 2/19/10.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Sik Yin Ngai, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Spencer Ngai. Unit 401, Harbour Ctr., Tower 2, 8 Hok Cheung Street, Hung Hom, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 74 FR 35799, 7/21/09.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Siliborn Technology Limited, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Siliborn Technology Ltd; —Siliborn Technology Ltd Trading; and —Siliborn. Flat 2, 8th Floor, Workingport Commercial Building, 3 Hau Fook St, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Silk Road Trading Company Ltd., a.k.a. the following two aliases: —Silk Road Trading Co Ltd.; and —Silk Road. 72 No—Fuzhong Road, Fuyong Sub-District, Bao'an District, Shenzhen City, Guangdong Province, 518100, China. (See alternate addresses under Iran). | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Singleton (Suzhou) Electronics Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the three following aliases: —Suzhou Singleton; —Suzhou Hefu Technology Co., Ltd.; and —Singleton Group China. Room 102, No. 6 Matangwan Road, Suzhou Industrial Park, Suzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Sinno Electronics Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Xinnuo Electronic Technology. Rm 2408 Dynamic World Building, Zhonghang Rd, Futian District, Shenzhen, China; and Rm 10905 Xingda Garden Building, Kaiyuan Rod, Xingsha Development Area, Changsha, China; and Rm B22, 1F, Block B East Sun Industrial Centre, 16 Shing Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. (See alternate address under Lithuania). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of Denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22. 87 FR 57082, 9/16/22.
Sino IC Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —Sino IC Test; —Shanghai Hualing Integrated Circuit Technology Co., Ltd.; —SinoLink; —Shanghai Enterprise Technology Center; —SINOIC; —Hualing; and —Shanghai Sino-Tech. No. 351, Guoshoujing Road, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR)4 | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Sinovac Technology Limited, Rm 804 Sino Center, 582-592 Sino Center Road, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 32445, 6/5/14.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
SITONHOLY (Tianjin) Co., Ltd., No. 1 Cuipu Road, Yixian Science Industrial Park, Tianjin Economic and Technological Development Zone, Tianjin, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 25505, 4/11/24.
Siu Ching Ngai, a.k.a. the following one alias:—Terry Ngai. Unit C, 9/F Neich Tower, 128 Gloucester Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 74 FR 35799, 7/21/09.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
SJ Semiconductor, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —SJ Semiconductor (Jiangyin) Corp.; and —SJ Jiangyin. 6 Dongsheng West Road, Building A8-4, Jiangyin City, Jiangsu Province, 214437, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.11 and 744.23(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20. 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Sky Rise Technology Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Sky Rise Tech. 4-4-2301 Xinyi Jiayuan, Chongwenmen, Dongcheng, Beijing, China; and Room 1905, 19/F, Nam Wo Hong Bldg., 148 Wing Lok Street, Sheung Wang, Hong Kong; and Room 1118, 11/F, Block B1, Yau Tong Industrial City, 17 Ko Fai Road, Yau Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; Room 1119, 11/F, Block B, Yau Tong Industrial City, 17 Ko Fai Road, Yau Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 69856, 11/12/15.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Skyeye Laser Technology Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Mianyang Tianyan Laser Technology, 237 Chuangye Road Zhongduan, Mianyang, Sichuan, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 34497, 6/5/20.
Skylinks FZC, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Skylinks; and—Skylinks Satellite Comm. RM 1905, 19/F, Nam Wo Hong Bldg., 148 Wing Lok Street, Sheung Wang, Hong Kong (See alternate addresses under U.A.E.). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Skyverse, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Shenzhen Nanolighting Technology Co., Ltd; and —Nanolighting Lab. Room 101, 201, and 301, No. 2 Dalang Street, Tongsheng Community, Shanghenglang Fourth Industrial Zone, Shenzhen, China; and Rooms 1401 through 1404, Floor 14, Building 7, No. 19 Beiyuan East Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China; and Room 102-B3, Building 8B, Shahu Science and Technology Park, No. 183 Tinglan Lane, Suzhou, China; and Building 2, Workshop Area, No. 1301-18, Yinxing Technology Park, Longhua District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Skyverse Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Hong Kong Zhongke Feice. 1008, Prosperity Millennia Plaza, 663 King's Rd, Tsat Tsz Mui, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Small Leopard Electronics Co., Limited, a.k.a., the following alias: —Xiaobao Electronics Co., Ltd. Flat/Rm 7022 BLK D 7/F Tak Wing Ind Building 3, Tsun Wen Road Tuen Mun, New Territories, Hong Kong; and Flat/Rm S, 4/F, Kwun, Tong Ind Centre Phase 2, 460-470, Kwun Tong Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
Smartcom (Hong Kong) Co., Limited, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 85 FR 83769, 12/23/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Smartech Future Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Balloons SMT. 29 Luk Hop Street, Wang Fai Industrial Building, 11/F, Room 8, Hong Kong; and 253-261 Hennessy Road, Easey Commercial Building, Room 1502, Wan Chai, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 55035, 7/3/24.
SMIC Advanced Technology R&D (Shanghai) Corporation, a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —SMIC New Technology Research and Development (Shanghai) Corporation; —SMIC New Technology R&D (Shanghai) Corporation; —SMIC Advanced Technology Research & Development (Shanghai) Corporation; —Zhongxin Guoji Jicheng Dianlu Xinjishu Yanfa (Shanghai) Youxian Gongsi; —SMIC Advanced Technology; —SMIC New Technology; and —SMIC New Technology Research & Development. 18 Zhangjiang Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, China; and 6th Floor, Building 3, No. 18, Zhangjiang Road, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone Shanghai, Shanghai, 201203 China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.4(a)(9), 734.9(e)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) 5 | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
SMIC Holdings Limited, Building 1, No. 1059 Dangui Road, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.11 and 744.23(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20. 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
SMIC Hong Kong International Company Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias: —SMIC Hong Kong. Suite 3003, 30th Floor, No. 9 Queen's Road, Central, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.11 and 744.23(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20. 85 FR 83769, 12/23/20. 86 FR 12531, 3/4/21. 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
SMIC Northern Integrated Circuit Manufacturing (Beijing) Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Semiconductor Manufacturing North China (Beijing) Corporation; and —SMIC North. Building 9, No. 18 Wenchang Avenue, Beijing Economic and Technological Development Zone, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.4(a)(9), 734.9(e)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) 5 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20. 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
SMIC Semiconductor Manufacturing (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Suzhou Design Center. Room 602, Building 1, No.158 Suya Road, Suzhou Industrial Park, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.11 and 744.23(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20. 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Sophgo Technologies Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Beijing Sophgo; —Beijing Suanneng Technology Co., Ltd; —Sophgo; and —SOPHON. 901, 9th Floor, Building 8, No. 8 Kegu 1st Street, Beijing Economic and Technological Development Zone, Yizhuang Group High-end Industrial Zone, Beijing Pilot Free Trade Zone, Beijing, China; and Building 6, Yard 9, Fenghao East Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4622, 1/16/25.
Sophon Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd., Room 106-2, Floor 1, Building 1, No. 9 Fenghao East Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4622, 1/16/25.
Southwest Research Institute of Electronics Technology, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—10th Research Institute of China Electronic Technology Group Corp (CETC);—CETC 10th Research Institute; and—Southwest Institute of Electronic Technology (SWIET); No. 6 Yong Xin Street, Chengdu; and No. 90 Babao Street, Chengdu; and 48 Chadianzi Street East, Jinniu District, Chengdu, 610036. | For all items subject to the EAR | See § 744.3(d) of this part | 66 FR 24267, 5/14/01.75 FR 78883, 12/17/10.77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.81 FR 64696, 9/20/16.
Space Star Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following 12 aliases: —Space star technology co., LTD; —Aerospace Steel Technology Co., Ltd.; —Aerospace Star Technology Co., Ltd.; —Institute 503, Fifth Aerospace Academy; —503 Aerospace Fifth Academy; —503 Institute; —CAST 503; —CASC 5th Academy, 503 Institute; —Spacestar; —SSTC; —Space Star Aero Tech; and —Space Star Aerospace Tech 82 Zhichun Road, Beijing, China; and No. 77, Jinjin Road, Zhongguancun, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Shaanxi Province Xi'an National Civil Aerospace Industry Base Feitian Road Beihang University Beihang University of Science and Technology Park, China; and Mid-Section of Xi'an Aerospace Avenue (Xi'an Satellite Application Base), China; and Building 2, Building 2, Building 2, No. 1666, Chengdu Economic and Technological Development Zone, Chengdu Economic and Technological Development Zone, Sichuan Province, China; and Block A, Building 5, Western Zhigu District, Wu Hing District, Wuhou District, Chengdu City, China; and No. 99, Shenzhou Avenue, High-tech Seven Road, Binhai High-tech Zone, Tianjin, China; and No. 1616, Science and Technology Innovation City, High-tech Industrial Development Zone, Harbin, Heilongjiang Province, China; and Building 21, Building 21, ZTE Software Park, No. 688, Aixi Hubei Road, High-tech Zone, Nanchang City, Jiangxi Province, China; and Aerospace Jiangnan, No. 27-1 Binhu District, Binhu District, Wuxi City, Jiangsu Province, China; and No. 127, Ziqiang Road, Qiaoxiang District, Shijiazhuang City, Hebei Province, China; and 50 Yongding Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and No. 18 Zhongguancun East Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and No. 39 Jiangjun Road, Jiangning District, Beijing, China; and No. 55 Zhuque Rd., Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Spacety Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Changsha Tianyi Space Science and Technology Research Institute; —Spacety; and —Spacety Luxembourg S.A. 9 Dengzhuang South Rd Beijing, Beijing China; and Room 445, 9th Floor, Block B, No. 18 Zhongguancun Street, Haidian District, Beijing China. (See alternate address under Luxembourg). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b), and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 12171, 2/27/23.
Speed Business Trading (HK) Ltd., Workshop 60 3/F Block A East, Sun Industrial Centre, No. 16 Shing Yip Street, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
STK Electronics (HK) Co., Ltd., a.k.a. the following one alias: —STK Electronics Co., Ltd. Room 1705, Block 4, Phase 2 Clound Park Bantian, Longgang District, Shenzhen City, China; and Room 2338 Guoli Plaza, Shenzhen, Futian District, Zhonghong Road, China; and Room 2607 DingCheng Building, Shenzhen, China; and Workshop 18 9/F Thriving Industrial Building, No. 26-38 Sha Tsui Road, Tsuen Wan NT, Hong Kong; and 7IF Bright, Unit 04, 33 Mong Kok Road, Hong Kong; and Unit 2D, 2nd Floor, Mai Wah Industrial Building, Nos 1/7, Wah sing Street, Kwai Chu Hong Kong; and Workshop 14 9/F, No. 26-38 Sha, Hong Kong; and 50/F Champion Tower, 3 Garden Road, Central, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Stratum FT Limited, a.k.a. the following one alias: —Stratos. Room 517 New City Centre, 2 Lei Yue Mun Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Su Bin, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Stephen Subin; and—Steve Su. Room 8306 Kelun Building, 12A Guanghua Road, Chaoyang, Beijing 100020, China; and Room 801, Unit 1, Building 8 Caiman Street, Chaoyang Road, Beijing 100025, China; and Building 1-1, No. 67 Caiman Str., Chaoyang Road, Beijing 100123, China; and Room A407 Kelun Building, 12A Guanghua Road, Chaoyang, Beijing 100020, China; and Rm 602, 5/F, No. 106 NanHu road, ChaoYang District, Beijing, China and Rm 1019-1020 Nan Fung Centre, 264-298 Castle Peak Road, Tsuen Wan New Territories, Hong Kong; and Room 1522 Nan Fung Centre, 264-298 Castle Peak Road, Tsuen Wan New Territories, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 44683, 8/1/14.85 FR 83768, 12/23/20.86 FR 12531, 3/4/21.
Suanli (Fujian) Technology Co., Ltd., Building 2, Phase 2, China Southeast Big Data Industrial Park, No. 2 Hujiang Road, Wenwusha Neighborhood, Changle District, Fuzhou, Fujian Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4622, 1/16/25.
Sugon, a.k.a., the following nine aliases: —Dawning; —Dawning Information Industry; —Sugon Information Industry; —Shuguang; —Shuguang Information Industry; —Zhongke Dawn; —Zhongke Shuguang; —Dawning Company; and —Tianjin Shuguang Computer Industry. Sugon Building, No. 36 Zhongguancun Software Park, No. 8 Dongbeiwang West Road, Haidian District, Beijing; and No. 15, Haitai Huake Street, Huayuan Industrial Zone, Tianjin; and Sugon Science and Technology Park, No. 64 Shuimo West Street, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 29373, 6/24/19. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22.
Suki Zhan, Room 2114, 21/FL Shenhua Commercial Bldg, Luohu District Shenzhen, China, 518001; and Floor 2, 4 Bld., Jinyuan Science and Technology Industry Park, Fengman Road Bantian Town, Longgang District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Suma Techology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Suma; —Zhongke Controllable Information Industry Co., Ltd.,; —CANCON; —Zhongke Controllable (Hubei) Information Co., Ltd.; and —Zhongke Controllable (Hunan) Information Co., Ltd. No. 88, Nansong Rd., Yushan Town, Kunshan, Jiangsu, China; and Room 2, Floor 3, Kam Hon Industrial Building, Wang Kwun Road, Kowloon Bay, Hong Kong; and No. 666, Wuhuan Avenue, Wuhan Airport Economic and Technological Development Zone, Dongxihu District, Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China; and Room 101-03, R&D Building, No. 1-1, Sanyi Road, Changsha Economic and Technological Development Zone, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Policy of denial | 90 FR 14048, 3/28/25.
Suma-USI Electronics Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Suma-USI; and —Zhongke Hongtai Electronics Co., Ltd. No. 89, Yanhui Road, Yushan town, Kungshan, Jiangsu Province, China; and Building 8, No. 232, Yuanfeng Road, Yushan East, Jiangsu, China; and Building 1, No. 88, Nansong Road, Yushan Town, Kunshan, Jiangsu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Policy of denial | 90 FR 14048, 3/28/25.
Sunrising Logistics (HK) Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Sunrising Electronics; —Sunrising Electronics China Ltd.; —Sunrising Electronics HK Ltd; —Sunrising International; and —Sunrising Logistics. 15-17 Hing Yip St. Room 5-6, 15 Block B, 4FChung Mei Center, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 205, 2/F Winful Center, 30 Shing Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Flat 11, 12F Shing Yip Industrial Building, 19-21 Shing Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
Sunton Tech Hong Kong Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Sunton Tech (HK) Limited; and —Shenzhen Unicom Electronic Technology Limited. Unit A10, 8/F, Block A, Proficient Industrial Centre, No. 6 Wang Kwun Road, Kowloon Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and 11/F, Front Block, Hang Lok Building, 128-130 Wing Lok St., Sheu, Hong Kong; and Rm. 2318, Dengcheng Plaza, Zhenzhong Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, China; and 18th Floor, Building B, Guoli Building, Zhonghang Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.2(d) and 744.3(d) of the EAR | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Suntop Semiconductor Co., LTD., No. 34-36 Au Pui Wan Street, Block B, Veristrong Industrial Centre, 12th Floor, Room 03, Shatin, New Territory, Hong Kong; and No. 116-118 How Ming Street, Manning Industrial Building, 1st Floor, Room B5, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Zhonghang Road, Dynamic World Building, Room 811, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518031, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Suntric Company Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias:—IC.CN Company Limited. Rm. 311, 3/F, Genplas Industrial Building 56 Hoi Yuen Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Unit C, D 10/F Shenmao Building News Road, Shenzhen, China; and Room 2113-2115, Level 21 Landmark North, 39 Lung Sum Avenue, Sheung Shui, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Sunway Microelectronics, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Chengdu Shenwei Technology; and —Chengdu Sunway Technology. Building D22, Electronic Science and Technology Park, Section 4, Huafu Avenue, Chengdu, China; and Shuangxing Avenue, Gongxing Street, Southwest Airport Economic Development Zone, Shuangliu District, Chengdu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 18438, 4/9/21. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22.
Superburning Semiconductor (Nanjing) Co., Ltd., No. 8, Lanhua Road, Room 806, Building 4, Pukou District, Nanjing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 71992, 10/19/23.
Superchip Limited, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Superchip Ltd; and —Superchip (HK) Limited. Unit 704, 7th Floor, 135 Bonham Strand Trade Center, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Suzhou Cambricon Information Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Suzhou Cambrian Information Technology Co., Ltd.; —Suzhou Cambricon IT; —Suzhou Cambrian IT; —Suzhou Cambricon; and —Suzhou Cambrian. Unit E502-3, International Science and Technology Park, No. 1355 Jinjihu Avenue, Suzhou Industrial Park, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Suzhou Centec Communications Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Centec Networks (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Unit 13/16, 4th Floor, Building B, No. 5 Xinghan St., Suzhou Industrial Park, Jiangsu, China; and Room 076, 21st Floor, 23rd Floor, Building 22, Shouti South Road, Haidian District, Beijing. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Suzhou Centec Technology Co., Ltd., Room 201, Building 6, No. 5, Xinghan St., Suzhou Industrial Park, Suzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Suzhou Changfeng Avionics Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AVIC Changfeng; —Changfeng Avionics; —AVIC Suzhou Changfeng Avionics; and —Suzhou Changfeng Aviation Electronics Co., Ltd. No. 379, Jianlin Road, New District, Suzhou City, Jiangsu Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Suzhou Huawei Investment Co., Ltd., Suzhou, Jiangsu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Suzhou Keda Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a, the following one alias:—Kedacom. No. 131, Jinshan Road, High-tech Zone, Suzhou City, Jiangsu Province, China; and No. 131, Jinshan Rd., High-Tech Zone, Suzhou City, Jiangsu Province, China; and 4th Floor, No. 111, Anju North Road, Shuimogou District, Urumqi City, China; and Room 1201, Ruichang Building, No. 136, Youhao South Road, Shayibake District, Urumqi, Xinjiang, China. (See alternate addresses under Netherlands, Pakistan, Singapore, South Korea, and Turkey). | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Suzhou Nanda Optoelectronic Materials Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Suzhou Nata; and —Suzhou Nanda. No. 40, Pingsheng Road, Suzhou Industrial Park, Suzhou, China; and No. 67, Pingsheng Road, Suzhou Industrial Park, Suzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Suzhou Nuclear Power Research Institute Co. Ltd., 1788 Xihuan Road, Suzhou, 215000, China | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
Suzhou SIP Hi-Tech Precision Electronics Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Suzhou Gaotai Electronic Technology Co., Ltd.; and —Singleton Group. No. 6 Matangwan Road, Suzhou Industrial Park, Suzhou, China; and Room 315, Unit 1, Building 1, No. 2 Nanchang Section of Tiyu Road, Nancheng Neighborhood, Dongguan, Guangdong, China; and No. 2 Xiangdeng Street, Weiting Town, Suzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Suzhou Telecom Electric Plant Co., Ltd. a.k.a., the following one alias: —Suzhou Telecom Motor Factory Co., Ltd. No. 482, Xujiang Road, Suzhou, Jiangsu, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
Suzhou Tiangong Mechanics Testing Technology Co., Ltd., No. 66, Tongdun Street, Suzhou, China; and Building 4, No. 99, Taishan Road, Suzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Suzhou Tiangong Testing Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —TG Testing; —Suzhou TG Testing Technology Co., Ltd.; and —CVMSL China. Building 15, No. 70, Yaofeng West Road, Suzhou, China; and Building F, No. 28, Yongchang Road, Suzhou, China; and Room 19C, Lockhart Center, 301-307 Lockhart Road, Wan Chai, Hong Kong; and Caohu Industrial Park, Tangbang Road, Suzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Suzhou Ultranano Precision Optoelectronics Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Suzhou Chaona Precision Optoelectronics Technology Co., Ltd.; and —Suzhou Ultranano. Room 2005, Building 6, No. 77 Heshun Road, Suzhou Industrial Park, Suzhou, Jiangsu, 215000, China; and Room 301 Building 3, No. 99 Jinyahu Avenue, Suzhou Industrial Park, Jiangsu Pilot Free Trade Zone, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 561, 1/6/25.
Suzhou Xinyan Holdings Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Shanghai Xinzhili Enterprise Development Co., Ltd. Modern Logistics Building (no. 112), Room 139, No. 88 Modern Avenue, Suzhou Industrial Park, Free Trade Pilot Zone Suzhou Area, Suzhou, China; and Building C, No. 888 Huanhu West 2nd Road, Lingang New Area, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 71992, 10/19/23.
SwaySure Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases: —SwaySure; —Shenzhen ShengWeixu Technology Company; —Sheng Weixu; and —SWX. Xiangshan Science and Technology Park, No. 1 Guiping Road, Fucheng Street, Longua District, Shenzhen City, Guangdong Province, China; and Floor 54-56, Building C, Digital Innovation Center, No. 328 Mintang Road, Longhua District, Shenzhen City, Guangdong Province, China; and Room 104, Building B, No. 1 Xinyuan 3rd Lane, Fuchengao Community, Pinghu Street, Longgang District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.4(a)(9), 734.9(e)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) 5 | Presumption of denial except case-by-case for items not described in ECCN 3B001.a.4, .c, .d, f.1.b.2, .k to .p; 3B002.c, 3B993, or 3B994 | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Synergy Express Ltd., Room 1237, Pacific Trade Centre, No. 2 Kai Hing Road, Kowloon Bay, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 32445, 6/5/14.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Sysdynamic Limited, Unit 716A, 7/F Enterprise Place (Building 9), No. 5 Science Park West Avenue, Hong Kong Science Park, Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong; and Unit 401, Harbour Ctr., Tower 2, 8 Hok Cheung Street Hung Hom, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 74 FR 35799, 7/21/09.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
System Equipment Co., Ltd. of the 28th Research Institute (Liyang), a.k.a. the following three aliases: —Liyang No. 28 System Equipment Co., Ltd.; —Liyang 28th System Equipment Co., Ltd.; and —CEV. No. 26 Yongsheng Road, Kunlun Street, Liyang City, China; and No. 90, East Pingling Road, Licheng Town, Liyang City, China; and No. 26, Shangshang Road, Licheng Town, Liyang City, Jiangsu Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Tacheng Prefecture Public Security Bureau, Tuanjie Rd. Tacheng City, XUAR 834700, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Taihe Electric (Hong Kong) Limited, Room No. 2002, 20th Floor, Building B, Jinsha Winera Plaza, No. 1, Shujin Road, Qingyang District, Chengdu, Sichuan, 610091, P.R. China; and MOWA 2188, Rm. 1007, 10/F., Ho King Ctr., No. 2-16 Fa Yuen Street, Mongkok, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
TaiYuan EFT Equipment Manufacturing Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Taiyuan Yifu Equipment Manufacturing Co., Ltd.; and —Taiyuan Efort Equipment Manufacturing Co., Ltd. 3rd Floor, University Science and Technology Pioneer Park, Taiyuan High-tech Zone, Taiyuan, Shanxi, China; and 4th Floor, Wanli Technology Office Building, No. 9 Changzhi West Lane, Taiyuan Xuefu Park, Shanxi Comprehensive Reform Demonstration Zone, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
Taiyuan Jinke Semiconductor Technology Co., Ltd., Area A, 4th Floor, No. 5 Fengze Road, Taiyuan, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Taizhou CBM-Future New Material Science and Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—CBM Future. China Jincheon Tung Cheng Jin Road, Linhai City, Zhejiang Province #431, 317005, China | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 21236, 5/14/19.
Tam Shue Ngai, Unit C, 9/F Neich Tower, 128 Gloucester Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 74 FR 35799, 7/21/09.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Tam Wai Tak, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Thomsom Tam. Room 609-610 6/F, Boss Commercial Center, 28 Ferry Street, Jordon, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 36519, 6/28/10.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
TanWei, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Terry Tan No. 288, Fuhai Road, Fushan District, Yantai City, Shandong Province, China | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16. 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
Tanyuan Technology Co. Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases:—Carbon Yuan Technology;—Changzhou Carbon Yuan Technology Development;—Carbon Element Technology—Jiangsu Carbon Element Technology; and—Tanyuan Technology Development. No. 7 Lanxiang Road, Wujin Economic Development Zone, Jiangsu. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Technopole Ltd., Suite 1505-6, Albion Plaza, 2-6 Granville Road, TsimShatSui, Kowloon, Hong Kong (See alternate address under India). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Tehran Pishro Trading Co., 16th Floor, Block B, Building 100, Duhui, Huaqiangbe District, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, China. (See alternate addresses under Iran and the United Arab Emirates.) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Telixin Electronics Technology Co., Ltd., Building 1, Jianxiang Garden, No., 209 North Fourth Ring Middle Road, Haidian, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Tenco Technology Company Ltd., a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —Redd Forest Technology Company Limited; —Shenzhen Shengfaweiye Electronic Co., Ltd.; —Shenzhen Tenco Technology Co., Ltd.; —Tenco International Co., Ltd.; —Shenzhen Qianhai Yikeshu Industrial Company Limited; —Shenzhen Yikeshu Shiye You Xia; and —Shenzhen Yikeshu Shiye You Xian. Jiahe Huaqiang Building, Shennan Middle Road, Room 2709, Block A, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518007, China; and Jiahe Building, Shennan Mid Road, Room 2709, Block A, Futian District, Shenzhen, 518000, China; and 56 Hoi Yuen Road, Kwun Kowloon, Room 311 3F Genplas Industrial Building, Hong Kong; and 8 Lam Lok Street, Room 15, 6F Corporation Square, Kowloon Bay, Hong Kong; and Longhua Street, Room 801, Number 15, Building 14, Xiayousong Village, Longhua District, Shenzhen, 518000, China and No.1 Qianhaiwan 1 Road, Room 201 Block A, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 21236, 5/14/19. 85 FR 83769, 12/23/20. 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22. 89 FR 55035, 7/3/24.
Tenfine Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Beijing Beihang Assets Management Co. Ltd.; and —Tenfine Limited Company. No 37 Xue Yuan Lu, Haidian, Beijing, China; and 37 Xue Yuan Road, Beijing, China; and Room 401, 4f Shining Tower, 35 Xue Yuan Lu, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and Room 402b, 4F Shining Tower, 35 Xue Yuan Lu, Haidian, Beijing, China; and Xueyan Road, Haidian District, Beijing City, 35th Ning Building, Room 402a. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463 12/12/13.87 FR 51877, 8/24/22.
Tengxuxing Electronic Technology HK Limited, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Tengxuxing Technology Solutions; —IC Tengxuxing; —Turshehing Electronic Technology (HK) Limited; and —Turshehing. Unit 1702A, 17th Floor, Sunbeam Plaza, No. 1155 Canton Rd., Mong Kok, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Office 3333, Saige Electronics Market (SEG) Plaza, 82 Shennan Middle Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Tex-Co Logistics Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Tex-Co Hongxin Logistics Limited. GF Seapower Industrial Building 177, Hoi Bun Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong, and Room 2202, 22F, Causeway Bay Plaza 1, 489 Hennessey Road, Causeway Bay, Hong Kong, and Room B03, 6/F, Cheong Wah Factory Building, 39-41 Sheung Heung Road, Tokwawan, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room G, 6/F Winner Building, 36 Man Yue Street, Hung Hom, Kowloon. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 7358, 2/19/10. 80 FR 69856, 11/12/15.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
The Test Flying Academy of South Africa, No. 1 Lingyun Road, Yanliang District, Xi'an City, Shaanxi Province, China. (See alternate address under South Africa.) | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Thundsea Electric Limited, Rm. 1014 Favour Industrial Centre, 2-6 Kin Hong Street Kwai Chung Hong Kong; and Unit 1405B 14/F, The Belgian Bank Building, NOS. 721-725 Nathan Road Mongkok, Kowloon, Hong Kong | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Tianjin 764 Avionics Technology Co., Ltd., Room 1002-2, No. 88 Haibin 8th Road, Tianjin Pilot Free Trade Zone (Tianjin Port Free Trade Zone), China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Tianjin 764 Communication and Navigation Technology Co., Ltd., Room 401, Door 1, Block F, No. 6 Erwei Road, Huayuan Industrial Zone, Tianjin, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Tianjin Aerospace Zhongwei Data System Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —81 UAV; and —Space ZW. Shenzhou Avenue 101, Super Large Spacecraft Assembly and Test Center, China; and No. 101, Shenzhou Avenue, Binhai Science and Technology Park, Binhai Hi-tech Zone, Tianjin, China; and No. 99, Shenzhou Avenue, Gaoxin 7th Road, Binhai Hi-tech Zone, Tianjin, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Tianjin Broadcasting Equipment Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Tianjin Communications and Guidance Technology Co., Ltd.; and—State-owned 764 Factory. No. 882 Dagu South Road, Hexi District, Tianjin. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Tianjin Micro Nano Manufacturing (MNMT), 3rd Floor, Room 316, A2 Building, Tianjin University Science Park, No. 80, 4th Avenue, Tianjin Economic Development Area (TEDA), Tianjin, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
Tianjin Phytium Information Technology, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Phytium; —Phytium Technology; and —Tianjin Feiteng Information Technology. Bldg 5 Xin'an Venture Plaza 1 Haiyuan M Rd Binhai New Area Tianjin, 300450 China; and Building 5, Xin'an Chuangye Plaza, No. 1, Haiyuan Middle Road, Binhai New District, Tianjin, China; and 8th Floor, Quantum Core Tower, No.27 Zhichun Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and 10th Floor, Office Building, Wangdefu Kaiyue International Building, No.526 Sanyi Avenue, Kaifu District, Changsha City, Hunan Province; China; and Room 101, No. 1012, Hulin Road, Huangpu District, Guangzhou, China; and 100 Waihuanxi Rd, 3F-326 Science Pavilion, Panyu District, Guangdong, Guangzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 18438, 4/9/21. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22.
Tianjin Shunhua Technology Co., Ltd., Area 3, Floor 1, Area C, Dongman Building, No. 126 Dongman Middle Road, Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-city (No. TG0004), Binhai, Tianjin, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4622, 1/16/25.
Tianjin Tiandi Weiye Technologies Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Tiandy Technologies. No. 8, Huake 2nd Road, Binhai High-tech Zone (Huayuan), Tianjin, China 300384. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Tianjin University, a.k.a., the following thirteen aliases: —Tianjin University, Binhai Industrial Research Institute; —Tianjin University, Hefei Institute for Innovation and Development; —Tianjin University, Institute of Medical Robots and Intelligent Systems; —Tianjin University, Jinnan Innovation Research Institute; —Tianjin University, Qingdao Ocean Engineering Research Institute; —Tianjin University, Quanzhou Integrated Circuit and Artificial Intelligence Research Institute; —Tianjin University, Shandong Research Institute; —Tianjin University, Shenzhen Research Institute; —Tianjin University, Sichuan Innovation Research Institute; —Tianjin University, Urban Planning and Design Institute; —Tianjin University, Wuqing Institute of Frontier Technology; —Tianjin University, Zhejiang Research Institute; —Tianjin University, Zhejiang Shaoxing Research Institute; and —Tianjin University, Zhongyuan Advanced Technology Research Institute. No. 92 Weijin Road, Tianjin, China 300072; and Building 2, 1 Xinxing Road, Wuqing Development Zone, Tianjin New Technology Industrial Park, China; and Building 1, Entrepreneurship Center (Incubator D plot), Blue Silicon Valley Core District, Qingdao, China; and 14th/16th Floor, Integrated Business Building, Hefei Export Processing Zone, Anhui Province (South of Yungu Road, East of Taozhi Road, Hefei Economic Development Zone), China; and 51 Lutai Dadao, Zhangdian District, Zibo City, Shandong Province, China; and 5th Floor (Science Park), Tianda High-tech Building, 192 Anshan West Road, Nankai District, Tianjin, China; and No. 2, Haitai Huakke No. 5 Road, Huayuan Industrial Park (Outside the Ring), Binhai High-tech Zone, Tianjin, China; and 15th floor, Quanzhou Software Park Complex Building, Beifeng Street, Fengze District, Quanzhou City, China; and A216 Virtual University Park, High-tech Park, Yuehai Street, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China; and No. 11-17-30, Makerspace, 11th Floor, Citizens' Home, Sandajie, New District, Kaifeng City, Henan Province, China; and Room 214, Building 3, 48 Jialingjiang Road, Lingang Economic Zone, Tianjin, China; and No. 85 Zhongguanxi Road, Zhenhai District, Ningbo City, China; and Building B6, District D, Tianfu New Economic Industrial Park, Xinglong Lake, Tianfu New District, Chengdu City, Sichuan Province, China; and No. 88, Kangyang Avenue, Hangzhou Bay Shangyu Economic and Technological Development Zone, Shaoxing City, Zhejiang Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20. 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Tiger Force Electronics Limited, 4th Floor, Building C Intl Career Parking, 2 Xinxi Road, Shangdi, Beijing, China; and Unit 615, 6/F, 11 Hoi Shing Road, Tsuen Wan, N.T., Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.2(d) and 744.3(d) of this part | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
TiMi Technologies Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—TiMi Technology Co. Ltd.; and—TiMi Tech. F/10, A-Tower, Nongke Building, 11/Shu Guang Hua Yuan Zhong Lu, Haidian District, Beijing, China, 100097; and Nanhai Avenue, Nanshan District, 518054, Shenzhen, China; and Room 1119, 11/F, Block B, Yau Tong Industrial City, 17 Ko Fai Road, Yau Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 1118, 11/F, Block B1, Yau Tong Industrial City, 17 Ko Fai Road, Yau Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Unit A, G/F, Pioneer Building, 213 Wai Yip St., Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 1905, 19/F, Nam Wo Hong Bldg., 148 Wing Lok Street, Sheung Wang, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 69856, 11/12/15.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Tongfang NucTech Technology Ltd., a.k.a. the following alias:—NucTech. Second Floor, Building A, Tongfang Skyscraper, Shuangqing Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
Tongfang R.I.A. Co., Ltd., 23F, Block A, Tsinghua Tongfang Technology Building, Wangzhuang Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and No. 2002, 20th Floor, Building 4, No. 1, Wangzhuang Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and 2000, Building 23, No. 18, Anningzhuang East Road, Qinghe, Haidian District, Beijing, China; and 101, 1st Floor, Building 69, Zone B, Venture Innovation City, No. 15 Fengji Avenue, Yuhuatai District, Nanjing, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Toptics, Inc., Chuangye Building 7/1F, 1197 Bin'An Road, Binjiang, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310052, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 36519, 6/28/10.
Tordan Industry Limited, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Tordan Industry; and —Tordan Industry Ltd. Unit 617, 6/F, 131-132 Connaught Road West, Solo Workshops, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Tumushuke Municipal Public Security Bureau, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Tumxuk Municipal Public Security Bureau. Qian Hai West Rd., Tumushuke City, XUAR S21866, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Turfan Municipality Public Security Bureau, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Turpan Municipality Public Security Bureau. 2447 Gaochang N Rd., Turfan City, Gaocheng District, XUAR 838000, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
TYT Electronics Co. Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Quanzhou Nan'an Teyitong Electronics Co., Ltd. Block 39-1, Optoelectronics-Information Industry Building, Nan'an, Quanzhou, Fujian, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
UCreate Electronics Group, a.k.a., the following one alias: —UCreate PCB Co., Ltd. No. 42 Caiyun Road, Yunhai Enterprise Headquarters Base, Building C, Room 315, Jixiang Community, Longgang District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and Room 315, Building C, Yunhai Industrial Park, Longgang District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and Xiangshui River Industrial Zone, Daya Bay, No. 11, East District, Industrial Park, Suichuan County, Ji'an, Jiangxi, China; and No. 116 Shuiku Road, Yanda Science Park, Baoan District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China; and 45-51 Chatham Road, Chevalier House, Room 803, Tsim Sha Tsui, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Ulanqab Nanda Microelectronics Materials Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Ulanqab Nata; —Ulanqab Nanda; —Ulanqab Nata Microelectronics; and —Ulanqab Nanda Microelectronics. Room 101, Building 5, Zone B, Business, Science, Technology and Culture Center, Jining District, Ulanqab, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
United Electronics Group Company Limited, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —UEG; —United Electronics Group Limited Company; and —United Electronics Group Co. Ltd. (United). 14 Tai Yau Street, Rm. 5, 11/F, Startex Industrial Building, San Po Kong, Hong Kong; and No.14 Tai Yau Street, Startex Industrial Building, San Po Kong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and No. 14 Tai Yau Street, 1105, 11/F, Startex Industrial Building, San Po Kong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.2l(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
United Microelectronics Center Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —CUMEC; and —UMEC. No. 2, No. 28, Xiyuan 1st Road, Shapingba District, Chongqing, China; and No. 20, Xiyuan South Street, Shapingba District, Chongqing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
United Vision Limited, Unit 417, 4th Floor, Lippo Centre, Tower Two, No. 89 Queensway, Admiralty, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Universal Enterprise Limited, 88 Tokwawan Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Rm 1102A, 11/F New Lee Wah Center, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Unit 2222-23 22/F, Siu Lek Yuen, Shatin, Hong Kong; and 4 Wangjing Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.2(d) and 744.3(d) of this part | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, No. 4, 2nd Section, North Jianshe Road, Chengdu, 610054. | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case basis. | 77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
University of Science and Technology of China, a.k.a., the following one alias: —USTC. East Campus, No.96, JinZhai Road, Baohe District, Hefei, China; and West Campus, No. 443, Huangshan Road, Shushan District, Hefei, China; and South Campus, No. 1129 Huizhou Avenue, Baohe District, Hefei, China; and No. 100, Fuxing Road, Shushan District, Hefei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
Urumqi Haishi Xin'an Electronic Technology Co., Ltd., Room 5010-5021, Block A, Yingke Plaza, No. 217 Gaoxin Street, Xinshi District, High-tech Industrial Development Zone Wulumuqi, Xinjiang, 830011 China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 18985, 3/30/23.
Urumqi Municipal Public Security Bureau, 339 Hebei East Rd., Urumqi XUAR, China and New China North Road, XUAR, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Urumqi Tianyao Weiye Information Technology Service Co., Ltd., 25th Floor, Block A, Chuangzhi Building, Software Park, North Kanas Road, Economic and Technological Development Zone, Urumqi, Xinjiang, China; and 150, 151, 172-176, Building 1, Frontier World Trade Center, No. 566, Yan'an Road, Tianshan District, Urumqi, Xinjiang, China; and No. 147-150, Xinqishi Shopping Center, Sondak Road, Guangming Street, Atsushi City, Xezhou, Xinjiang, China; and Unit 1, Residential Building, Meteorological Bureau, Sanxia West Road, Tuanjie Road, Bogdal Town, Wenquan County, Bozhou, Xinjiang, China; and 67 Renmin East Road, Akto Town, Akto County, Kizilsu Kirgiz Autonomous Prefecture, Xinjiang, China; and Unit 1-2, Building B2, Auto Parts Market, Daxin Auto City, Wensu County, Aksu District, Xinjiang, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Victory Wave Holdings Limited, Unit 2401 A, Park-In Commercial Centre, 56 Dundas Street, Hong Kong; and Unit 2401A, 24/F Park-In Commercial Centre, 56 Dundas Street, Mongkok, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 1701, 1/13/10.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Wang Wei, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Jack Wang. 4-4-2301 Xinyi Jiayuan, Chongwenmen, Dongcheng, Beijing, China; and F/10, A-Tower, Nongke Building, 11/Shu Guang Hua Yuan Zhong Lu, Haidian District, Beijing, China, 100097; and Room 1905, 19/F, Nam Wo Hong Bldg., 148 Wing Lok Street, Sheung Wang, Hong Kong; and Room 1118, 11/F, Block B, Yau Tong Industrial City, 17 Ko Fai Road, Yau Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 1119, 11/F, Block B, Yau Tong Industrial City, 17 Ko Fai Road, Yau Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 69856, 11/12/15.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Wargos Industry Limited, No. 131-132 Connaught Road West, Solo Workshops, 6th Floor, Room 617, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Wavelet Electronics, Room 605, 6/F, Corporation Park, No. 11 on Lai Street, Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong; and Building A2-3, Haufeng Industrial Park, Shiyan, Baoan District, Shenzhen, China; and RM511 5/F, Corporation Park, 11 ON LAI Street, Siu Lek Yuen, Shatin, N.T. Hong Kong. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71560, 12/17/21. 87 FR 8182, 2/14/22.
Wayne Weipeng, the following one alias:—Wang Wayne. Room 1811, B Bldg., Jiahe Tower, No. 3006 Shennan Middle Rd., Shenzhen, China; and Room 1608, B Bldg., Jiahe Tower, No. 3006 Shennan Middle Road, Shenzhen China 518031; and Unit C, D 10/F Shenmao Building News Road, Shenzhen, China; and Rm. 311, 3/F, Genplas Industrial Bldg., 56 Hoi Yuen Rd., Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 06 Blk A 23/F Hoover Ind. Bldg., 26-38 Kwai Cheong Rd., Kwai Chung N.T., Hong Kong; and Unit 614, 6/F., Blk. A, Po Lung Ctr., No. 11 Wang Chiu Road, Kowloon Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and No. 11 Wang Chiu Road Unit 614A 6F Po Lung Centre, Hong Kong; and Flat/Rm32, 11/F Lee Ka Industrial Building 8NK Fong Street San Po Kong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Flat/Room 33 8/F Sino Industrial Place 9 Kai Cheung Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and 62459-4F East Asia Industrial Building, 2 Ho Tin Street, Tuen Mun, N.T., Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Wei Pang, No. 92 Weijin Road, Tianjin, China 300072; and 3rd Floor, Room 316, A2 Building, Tianjin University Science Park, No. 80, 4th Avenue, Tianjin Economic Development Area (TEDA), Tianjin, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
Well Fair International (Hong Kong) Ltd., Unit 1105, Hua Qin International Building, 340 Queen's Road, Central, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
Well Smart (HK) Technology, Room 604, Kalok Building, 720 Nathan Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Wellgo International Industrial Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Wellgo International Industrial Ltd. Unit B2, 3/F, 18-24 Kwai Cheong Road., Mai Shun Industrial Building, Kwai Chung, New Territories, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Win Key Limited, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Win Key; and —Win Key Ltd. Room 1606, 16/F Workingbond Commercial Centre, 162-164 Prince Edward Road West, Mong Kok, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Unit 1008, 10/F, Sun Cheong Industrial Building, 2-4 Cheung Yee Street, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Wingel Zhang, No. 9 Jiuxianqiao East Rd, Chaoyang, Beijing, China 100015; and A36-2 Huanyuan Haidian, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Wingtech Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —WINGTECH. No. 18 East Xincheng Road, Wangren Town, Huangshi Development Zone, Tieshan District, Hubei Province, China; and 4th through 6th floors of Bldg. 4 of Juxin Yuan, No. 188 Pingfu Rd. Xuhui District, Shanghai, China; and Zhongqing Mansion, No. 42 Gaoxin 6th Rd. High Tech Zone, Xi'an, China; and No. 777 Yazhong Rd. Jiaxing, Zhejiang, China; and 11 Changjiang South Rd. Xinwu Dist., Wuxi, Jiangsu, China; and 7 Shenzhou Rd., Science City Guangzhou High Tech Industrial Development Zone, Guangzhou, China; and 5097 Luosha Road, Yinfeng Area, Shenzhen, China; and No. 1003, Yanhe North Road, Jingji Oriental Duhui Area, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Winninc Electronic, Gaokede Building, Huaqiang North, Shenzhen, China; and 1203 High Technology Building, Guangbutun Wuchang District, Wuhan, China; and #4 Dong Aocheng 1618, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China; and 2818 Glittery City Shennan Middle Road, Shenzhen, China; and Unit 01 & 03, 1/F Lai Sun Yuen Long, No. 27 Wang Yip Street East, Yuen Long, N.T., Hong Kong; and Unit 04, 8/F Bright Way Tower No. 33 Mong Kok Rd Konglong, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of Denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22. 87 FR 57082, 9/16/22.
Wise Road Capital a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Beijing Wise Road Management Co., Ltd.; —Beijing Zhilu Asset Management Co., Ltd.; and —Zhilu Asset. 2/F, Beijing International Club Office Tower, No. 21 Jian Guo Men Wai Street, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China and Room 1810, Bund Center, 222 Yan An East, Huangpu District, Shanghai, China and Room 901-3, 9th Floor, Building 57, No. 2 Jingyuan North Street, Beijing Economic and Technological Development Zone, Beijing, China and Room 8-50, Building 6, Ronghui Garden, Linkong Economic Core Zone, Shunyi District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Wise Smart (HK) Electronics Limited, Room 1213, Chui King House, Choi Hung Estate, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Woke Trading H.K. Limited, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Shenzhen Walker Trade Co., Ltd.; —Woke Trading Shenzhen Co., Ltd; and —Shenzhen Woke Commerce and Trade Co., Ltd. Chuangye 1st Road, Room 1815, Hongfa Center Building, Baoan District, Shenzhen, China; and Chuangye 1st Road, Room 815, Hongfa Center, Baoan Center, Shenzhen, China; and Chuangye 1st Road, Room 181, Hongfa Center Building, Baoan Central District, Baoan District, Shenzhen City, China; and Longjing 1st Road, B509, Huachuangda Qianhai Maker Technology Innovation Base, District 38, Anle Community, Xin'an Street, Baoan District, Shenzhen City, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial. See § 746.8 of the EAR | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Woke Trading Hongkong Limited, a.k.a., the following alias: —Woke Trading Hong Kong Limited No: 66-82, Chai Cwan Kok St., Unit E, 8/F, Golden Bear Industrial Center, Tsuen Wan, New Territories, Hong Kong; and 1 Wang Kwong Rd, Hong Kong; and Rm D, 10/F, Tower A, Billion Ctr, Kowloon Bay, Hong Kong; and 1 Wang Kwong Road, Hogfa Center, Kowloon Bay, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial. See § 746.8 of the EAR | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Wong Wai Chung, a.k.a., the following one alias:—David Wong. Unit 27B, Block 8, Monte Vista, 9 Sha On Street, Ma On Shan, New Territories, Hong Kong; and Unit 7A, Nathan Commercial Building 430-436 Nathan Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room D, Block 1, 6/F International Industrial Centre, 2-8 Kwei Tei Street, Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 1701, 1/13/10.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Wong Yung Fai, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Tonny Wong. Unit 27B, Block 8, Monte Vista, 9 Sha On Street, Ma On Shan, New Territories, Hong Kong; and Unit 1006, 10/F Carnarvon Plaza, 20 Carnarvon Road, TST, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Unit 7A, Nathan Commercial Building, 430-436 Nathan Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room D, Block 1, 6/F International Industrial Centre, 2-8 Kwei Tei Street, Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong; and Unit 9B, Nathan Commercial Building 430-436 Nathan Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Unit 2401A, 24/F Park-In Commercial Centre 56 Dundas Street, Mongkok, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 1701, 1/13/10.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Wong Yung Fai, a.k.a., Tonny Wong, Unit 12B, Block 11, East Pacific Garden, Xiang Lin Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, China | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 1701, 1/13/10.
World Jetta (H.K.) Logistics Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Hong Kong Shijieda Logistics. 1017 Building B Jiahe Huangqiang Block, Futian District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of Denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22. 87 FR 57082, 9/16/22.
Wuhan Huawei Investment Co., Ltd., Wuhan, Hubei, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Wuhan IRCEN Technology, 1329, Unit 2, Building 1, Xin Shangdu, Block B, Optics Valley World City Plaza, Luoyu Road, Wuhan, Hubei, China 430000. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
Wuhan Mailite Communication Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Mailite Communications Co., Ltd.;—Wuhan Melite Communication Co. Ltd.; and—Wuhan Melit Communication Co. Ltd. No. 999 Gaoxin Avenue, Wuhan, China; and No. 312 Luoyu Road, Hongshan District, Wuhan, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Wuhan Naura Microelectronics Equipment Co., Ltd., a.k.a. the following two aliases: —Wuhan Naura; and —Wuhan Naura Microelectronics. Fifth Floor, Hubei Marine Engineering Equipment Research Institute, Taolin Road, Jiangxia District, Wuhan, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Wuhan Raycus Fiber Laser Technologies Co., Ltd., Building 10, Innovation Base of Hus, Tangxunhu North Road 33 East LA, Wuhan, Hubei, China 430223; and No. 999 Gaoxin Avenue, East Lake Hi-Tech Development Zone, Wuhan, Hubei, China 430223. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Wuhan Skyverse Semiconductor Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Wuhan Nanolighting Semiconductor Technology Co., Ltd. Room 201, 2nd Floor, Building C2, Phase I, Longshan Innovation Park, Wuhan Future Science and Technology City, No. 999 Gaoxin Avenue, East Lake New Technology Development Zone, Wuhan, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Wuhan Suanneng Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Wuhan Sophgo. Room 2902, Fanyuecheng Office Building T2, Guanshan Avenue, East Lake New Technology Development Zone, Wuhan, Hubei Province, China; and Room 2902, Fanyuecheng Office Building T2, Guanshan Avenue, Donghu New Technology Development Zone, Wuhan, Hubei Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4622, 1/16/25.
Wuhan Xinxin Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias: —XMC. No. 18 Gaoxin Four Road, East Lake High-Tech Development Zone, Wuhan, China; and 3rd Floor, Area E, Shengyin Building, Shengxia Road, Pudong New District, Shanghai, China; and Room B504, Building B, International Science and Technology Park Phase II, No. 1355 Jinjihu Avenue, Suzhou Industrial Park, Suzhou, China; and T2 1909, Fangda City, No. 2 Longzhu 4th Road, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.4(a)(9), 734.9(e)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) 5 | See §§ 740.26, 744.11, and 744.23(d) of the EAR | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Wuhan Yiguang Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Wuhan eoptics Technology. Building 6, No. 10, Financial Gang 4th Road, East Lake New Technology Development Zone, Wuhan, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Wuhu Kewei Zhaofu Electronics Co., Ltd., West side of North Jiuhua Road, Economic and Technological Development Zone, Wuhu, Anhui, China; and No.10 Ruifu Road, Longshan Avenue, Wuhu Economic and Technological Development Zone, Wuhu, Anhui, 241000, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 561, 1/6/25.
Wujiaqu Municipality Public Security Bureau, 676 Changan W Rd., Wujiaqu City, XUAR 831300, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Wulanchabu Huawei Cloud Computing Technology, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Ulan Qab Huawei Cloud Computing Technology. Huawei Cloud Data Center at the Intersection of Manda Road and Jingqi Road, Jining District, Wulanchabu City, Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Wuxi Institute of Advanced Technology, Building 2, K-Park Business Center, No. 50 Xiuxi Road, Binhu District, Wuxi City, Jiangsu Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR)4 | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Wuxi Jiangnan Institute of Computing Technology, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Jiangnan Institute of Computing Technology; and —JICT. No. 699, Shanshui East Road, Binhu District, Wuxi City, China, and No. 188, Shanshui East Road, Binhu District, Wuxi City, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 29373, 6/24/19. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22.
Wuxi Kaishitong Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Wuxi Kingstone Technology. Room 201, plot on the west side of the new 312 National Highway, Shuofang, Wuxi New District, on the north side of Xijin Road (in the Airport Industrial Park), Wuxi, China; and Room 201, Building 14, Xutian Technology Park, No. 53 Xiuxi Road, Binhu District, Wuxi, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Wuxi Naura Microelectronics Equipment Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Wuxi Naura; and —Wuxi Naura Microelectronics. IC Design Building B1007, 33 Xinda Road, Xinwu District, Wuxi, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Wuxi Suanneng Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Wuxi Sophgo. Room 7028, Comprehensive Building, No. 298 Xicheng Road, Liangxi District, Wuxi, Jiangsu Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4622, 1/16/25.
Wynn Electronics Co. Ltd., 2818 Glittery City Shennan Middle Road, Shenzhen, China; and Unit 04,7/F Bright Way Tower No.33 Mong Kok Rd Konglong, Hong Kong; and Room 2503, Block A, Ester Times Building, Huaqiang North, Futian, 518031, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Xi'an Aerospace Automation Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Xi'an Aerospace; —AsAm; and —asam. No. 8, Electronic 1st Road, Xi'an City, China; and No. 8, Dian Zi Road, Xi'an City, China; and No. 8 Dian Zi First Road, Xi'an City, China; and No. 2, Middle Section of Weidou Road, Chang'an District, Xi'an, Shaanxi Province, China; and No. 43, Ali Road, Sayibak District, Urumqi, Xinjiang, China; and No. 12, Laogangfang Street, Xincheng District, Hohhot City, Inner Mongolia, China; and No. 471, Hanyun Road, Baiyun District, Guangzhou City, China; and Rainforest Space Incubator, Building B, Yinchuan Zhongguancun Innovation Center, Xingzhou North Street, Xixia District, Yinchuan City, Ningxia, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Xi'an Aerospace Huaxun Technology, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Aerospace Huaxun. 10th Floor, Block C, Xi'an National Digital Publishing Base, No. 996 Tiangu 7th Road, Yuhua Street Office, High-Tech Zone, Xi'an, China; and 3F, Huihao International, No. 58, Keji 2rd Road, High-Tech Zone, Xi'an City, Shaanxi, Province 710075, China; and No. 1061-1, Section 1, East Second Ring, Hehuayuan St., Furong District, Changsha City, Hunan Province, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Xi'an Aerospace Tianhui Data Technology Co., Ltd., Unit 5, Building 6, Beihang Science and Technology Park, National Civil Aerospace Industry Base, Hangtian Middle Road, Xi'an, Shaanxi Province, China; and 7th floor of Building B, Huihang Plaza, Hangtuo Road, Xi'an Aerospace Base, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Xi'an Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., Xi'an, Shaanxi, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Xi'an Hengda Microwave Technology Development Co., Ltd. No. 485 Feitian Road, Aerospace Base, Xi'an, China, 710100; and Room 2302, Building 4 OuFengYuan, Chang'an South Road, Xian, Shaanxi Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
Xi'an Huada Jiutian Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Xi'an Huada; and —Xi'an Empyrean. Unit 8F, Floor G1, Xi'an Huanpu International Technology Yuan, No. 211, Tiangu 8th Road, High-tech Zone, Xi'an, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Xi'an Like Innovative Information Technology Co., Ltd., Floor 12, Building 1, Greenland Lehe City, South Second Ring Road, Beilin District, Xi'an City, Shaanxi Province, China; and Room 2914, Building 1, No. 323, East Section of Second Ring South Road, Beilin District, Xi'an City, Shaanxi Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 25505, 4/11/24.
Xi'an Naura Microelectronics Equipment Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Xi'an Naura; and —Xi'an Naura Microelectronics. Floor 4, Building D, National Service Outsourcing Demonstration Base, No. 11 Jinye 1st Road, High-tech Zone, Xi'an, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Xi'an Overland Science and Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Xi'an Wolan Science and Technology Co., Ltd. No. 127 Youyi Xi Road, Xi'an, China; and No 17 Laodong South Rd., Xi'an, China; and Room 1-202, No. 18 Science and Technology Road, High-tech Zone, Xi'an, China; and Room 1-202, Keji Wu Rd, Gaoxin District, Xi'an, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Xi'an Research Institute of Navigation Technology, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—20th Research Institute of China Electronic Technology Group Corp (CETC); and—CETC 20th Research Institute 1 Baisha Rd., Xi'an, Shaanxi. | For all items subject to the EAR | See § 744.3(d) of this part | 66 FR 24267, 5/14/01.75 FR 78883, 12/17/10.77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.81 FR 64696, 9/20/16.
Xi'an Ruixin Investment Co., Ltd., Xi'an, Shaanxi, China. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Xi'an Sunward Aeromat Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three alias: —Xi'an Sunword Aerospace Material Co., Ltd.; —Xi'an Xiangyang Aerospace Materials Co., Ltd.; and —Xi'an Xiangyang Hangtian Cailiao Gufen Youxian Gongsi. No. 32 Tuanjie South Road, High Tech Zone, Xi'an City, China; and Aerospace 7414 Plant, Baijiaping, Wangchuan Town, Lantian County, China; and Tiedong, Zhaodong City, Suihua City, Heilongjiang Province, China; and No. 1, Tianwang Street, Hongqing Street, Baqiao District, Xi'an, China; and No. 2 Huanhu Road, Chengdu-Aba Industrial Concentration Development Zone, Huaikou Town, Jintang County, Chengdu City, Sichuan, China; and Southeast corner of the intersection of Hangtian East Road and Hangtian Avenue, National Civil Aerospace Industry Base, Xi'an, Shaanxi, China; and Room 301, Emerging Industry Incubator, No. 44, Torch New Street, Daqing High-tech Zone, Heilongjiang Province (Park), China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Xi'an Xiangteng Microelectronics Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Xi'an Xiangteng Weidianzi Keji Youxian Gongsi; and —Xiangteng Microelectronics. Room S303, Innovation Building, No. 25 Gaoxin 1st Road, Xi'an, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Xi'an Xiangxun Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Aviation Industry Xi'an Xiangxun Technology Co., Ltd.; —AVIC Xi'an Xiangxun Technology Co., Ltd.; —Xi'an Xiangxun Technology; —Xiangxun Technology; and —Xi'an Xiangxun Keji Youxian Zeren Gongsi. 156 Taibaibei Road Lianhu District, Xi'an City, Shaanxi, China; and No. 156, Taibai North Road, Beilin, Xi'an City, Shaanxi Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Xi'an Xiangyu Aviation Technology Group, a.k.a., Xi'an Xiangyu Aviation Technology Company, 16 Gaoxin 4th Road, Xian High Tech Industrial Development Zone, Xian, China | For all items subject to the EAR. (See 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 36519, 6/28/10.
Xiamen Meiya Pico Information Co. Ltd., No. 131, Unit 1, Building 1, Tuman Road Construction Company, Kashi City, Xinjiang; and Room 1504, Block B, Sunshine 100 Commercial Complex 333, Qiantangjiang Road, Urumqi, Xinjiang, China; and Meiya Pico Building,12,Guanri Road,2nd Phase of Xiamen Software Park, Xiamen, Fujian, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Xiamen Skyverse Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Xiamen Nanolighting Technology Co., Ltd., Unit 1623, No. 567 Haicang Avenue, Xiamen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Xiamen Sophgo Technologies Limited, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Xiamen Suanneng Technology Co., Ltd.; and —Xiamen Sophgo. Room 702-01, Xinghui Building, No. 9, Zengcuoan North Road, Software Park, Xiamen Torch Hi-Tech Zone, Xiamen, Fujian Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4622, 1/16/25.
Xian Semi Electronic Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Semi Electronics Co.;—Semi Electronics International Co. Limited; and—Exodus Microelectronics Co., Ltd. Room 24F, Duhui 100 Building Block B, ZhongHang Road, Futian District, Shenzhen City GuangDong Province, China; Room 1810 Lang Chen Building, No. 13 Gaoxin Road, High Technology Development Zone, Xian, China; Room 24F-27E Duhui B, Zhonghang Road, Futian District, Shenzhen City, China; and Room 1802 Xigema Building No. 25, Gaoxin Road, High-Tech Development Zone, Xian, China; and CAMDY, F1, 6/F BR3 Lanzhou Ind., No. 20-30 Jiangyuan, Yantian, Hong Kong; and Room 611 6/F Ricky CTR 36 Chong Yip St., Kwun Tong Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 71869, 11/21/11.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Xianfa Lin, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Alpha Lam. 15H Office Building, Buji Central Plaza, Jihua Road, Buji Longgang, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 32445, 6/5/14. 82 FR 24245, 5/26/17.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Xin Quan Electronics Hong Kong Co., Limited, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Xin Quan (HK) Electronics Ltd.; and —XQHK. No. 14-24 Au Pui Wan Street Block 1, Kin Ho Industrial Building, 17th Floor, Room 1, Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong; and 75-77 Fa Yuen Street, Fa Yuen Commercial Building, Room 705, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and 18 Luard Road, One Capital Place, 16th Floor, Room D, Wan Chai, Hong Kong; and 19-21 Shing Yip Street, Shing Yip Building, Room 1302, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room B, Bank Tower, Nos. 351 & 353 King's Road, North Point, Hong Kong; and No. 3018, ShenNan Middle Road, Century Place-Duhuixun, Room 2601, Futian, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Xinghe Xingyong Carbon Co., Ltd., Xicheng Wai, Chengguan Town, Xinghe County, Inner Mongolia, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 24565, 5/1/14.
Xinjiang Beidou Tongchuang Information Technology Co., Ltd., Room 101-102, Unit 1, Building 12, No. 989, Xinhuan North Road, Urumqi, Xinjiang, China; and Room 217-3, Information Technology Innovation Park, Xinjiang University, No. 499 Northwest Road, Shayibake District, Urumqi, Xinjiang, China; and No. 1901-1902, 19th Floor, 1 Shaanxi Building, Shenka Avenue Headquarters Economic Zone, Kashgar Economic Development Zone, Kashgar, Xinjiang, China; and No. 11, Lane 1, Yongxing Road, Yongning Town, Yanqi County, Bazhou, Xinjiang, China; and No. 33 South Boltala Road, Alashankou, Bozhou, Xinjiang, China; and Room 101, H1 District, Minzhu Middle Road Side Trade Market, Akqi Town, Aletai Habahe County, Xinjiang, China; and Shop 22, Section F, Second Floor, Golden Crown Shopping and Leisure Plaza, No. 658 Tunken East Street, Tumushuke City, Xinjiang, China; and North Side of Xingfu West Road, Jinghe County, Bozhou, Xinjiang, China; and 1st Floor of Building No. 7, Building No. 4, Building No. 11, Gongyuan Street, Yining City, Yili Prefecture, Xinjiang, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Xinjiang Daqo New Energy, Co. Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Xinjiang Great New Energy Co., Ltd.;—Xinjiang Daxin Energy Co., Ltd.; and—Xinjiang Daqin Energy Co., Ltd. Shihezi Development Zone Chemical New Material Industrial Park; and No. 16, Weiliu Road, New Chemical Material Industrial Park, Shihezi Economic Development Zone, Xinjiang China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 86 FR 33120, 6/24/21.
Xinjiang East Hope Nonferrous Metals Co. Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Xinjiang Nonferrous. Wucaiwan Industrial Park, Zhundong Economic and Technological Development Zone, Changji Prefecture, Xinjiang (Cainan Community); and Jimsar County, Changji Hui Autonomous Prefecture, Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Wucaiwan Coal, Electricity and Coal Chemical Base, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 86 FR 33120, 6/24/21.
Xinjiang GCL New Energy Material Technology, Co. Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Xinjiang GCL New Energy Materials Technology Co., Ltd. East Section of Hengsi Road, Quanbei Industrial Zone, Hongsha, Zhundong Economic and Technological Development Zone, Changji Prefecture, Xinjiang (Jijihu Community); and East Part, the 4th Horizontal Road, North Hongshaquan Industrial park, Zhundong Economic and Technological Development Zone, Changji, Xinjiang, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 86 FR 33120, 6/24/21.
Xinjiang Kehua Hechang Biological Science and Technology Co., Ltd., Room 1110, Block B, Building 1, High-rise Commercial and Residential Building, Qiyi Jiangyuan, No. 396, Huanghe Road, Saybag District, Urumqi, Xinjiang, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Xinjiang Lianhai Chuangzhi Information Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following alias:—Xinjiang Lianhai Chuangzhi Xinxi Keji Youxian Gongsi. Room 908-5, Floor 9, Shumagang Tower, No. 258 Gaoxin Street, High-Tech Industrial Zone (New City), Urumqi, Xinjiang, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Xinjiang Police College, Xinshi District, Changsha Road, No. 1108, Urumqi, Xinjiang, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps (XPCC), a.k.a., the following three aliases:—XPCC;—Xinjiang Corps; and—Bingtuan. Urumqi, Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 86 FR 33120, 6/24/21.
Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps (XPCC) Public Security Bureau, 106 Guangming Rd., Urumqi, Tianshan, XUAR, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Xinjiang Sailing Information Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Xi Ling Information; and—Xinjiang Xiling Information Technology 10th Floor, Dacheng International Building, No. 358 Beijing South Road, High-tech Zone (New City), Urumqi, Xinjiang, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Xinjiang Silk Road BGI, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Xinjiang Silk Road Huada Gene Technology. Xinjiang Urumqi High-tech Industrial Development Zone (New Urban District) No.258 Gaoxin Street Cyberport Building 2015-891. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Xinjiang Tangli Technology Co., Ltd., Room 601, Leon Technology R&D Service Center, Building 1, No. 518, Yanshan Street, Urumqi Economic and Technological Development Zone, Xinjiang, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR) People's Government Public Security Bureau, 28 Qiantangjiang Rd., Shayibake District, Urumqi, XUAR, 830006, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Xinlian Rongchuang Integrated Circuit Industry Development (Beijing) Co., Ltd., No. 19, Ronghua Middle Road, Room 312, 3rd Floor, Building B, Beijing Economic and Technological Development Zone, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Xinnlinx Electronics Pte Ltd., SPB-A 1601 Overseas Decoration Building, Shenzhen, China. (See alternate address under Singapore). | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Xiong'an Cambricon Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a. the following three aliases: —Xiong'an Cambrian Technology Co., Ltd.; —Xiong'an Cambricon; and —Xiong'an Cambrian. Leader Jin Street A-, Rongcheng County, Baoding City, Hebei Province, China No. 72-1. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Y-Sing Components Limited, Unit 401, Harbour Ctr., Tower 2, 8 Hok Cheung Street, Hung Hom, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Yaguang Technology Group Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Sunbird Yachting Co., Ltd. Yacht Industrial Park, Yuanjiang, China; and No. 18, Shijihu Road, Yuanjiang City, Yiyang City, China; and Yaguang Science and Technology Park, No. 1820 Yuelu West Avenue, Changsha, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 561, 1/6/25.
Yangtze Memory Technologies Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Changjiang Cunchu; —YMTC; and —Changjiang Storage Technology. 88 Weilai 3rd Road, East Lake High-tech Development Zone, Wuhan, Hubei, China; and Room 104, Block A, Ziguang Information Port, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China; and No. 88, Future 3rd Road, Donghu, New Technology Development Zone, Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China; and Building 45, No. 1387 Zhangdong Road, Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China; and No. 18, Gaoxin 4th Road, Donghu New Technology Development Zone, Wuhan, China; and Room 3201, 32nd Floor, Hu Zhong Building, 213 Queen's Road East, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Yeraz, LTD, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Mikrocity HK Limited. Room 927 9/F Far East Consortium Building, 121 Des Voeux Road C, Central District, Hong Kong; and Room 402-403, 4/F, Hong Kong Trade Centre, 161-167 Des Voeux Road, Central, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 44259, 7/25/11. 80 FR 69856, 11/12/15.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Yield Bright Industrial Limited, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Yuhui Industrial Co; and —Yuhui Industrial Co., Ltd. Unit B2, 3/F, 18-24 Kwai Cheong Road., Mai Shun Industrial Building, Kwai Chung, New Territories, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Yili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture Public Security Bureau, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture Public Security Bureau. Sidalin W Rd., Yining City, XUAR 835000, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Yin Zhao, No. 2A Zhonghuan South Road, Wangjing, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China, 100102; and Room 302 Office, Bldg 11, No. 4, Anningzhuang Rd, Beijing, China, 100085. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 44849, 7/28/15.
Yiru Zhuang, Room 1811, B Bldg., Jiahe Tower, No. 3006 Shennan Middle Rd., Shenzhen, China; and Room 06 Blk A 23/F Hoover Ind. Bldg., 26-38 Kwai Cheong Rd., Kwai Chung N.T., Hong Kong; and Unit 614, 6/F., Blk A, Po Lung Ctr., No.11 Wang Chiu Road, Kowloon Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Rm. 311, 3/F, Genplas Industrial Bldg., 56 Hoi Yuen Rd., Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and No. 11 Wang Chiu Road Unit 614A 6F Po Lung Centre, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Yishang Network (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd., Room 812, Building 511, Bagualing Industrial Zone, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518028, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Yitu Technologies, 23F, Shanghai Arch Tower I, 523 Loushanguan Rd, Changning District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19. 85 FR 44159, 7/22/20. 87 FR 62202, 10/13/22.
Yiwu Tianying Optical Instrument Company, Room 301, 1 Unit, 18 Building, Houcheng Yi Qu, Jiangdong Street, Yiwu City, Zhejiang, China, 322000. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 44849, 7/28/15.
Yixin Science and Technology Co. Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Yixin Technology;—Yuxin Technology;—Yuxin Science and Technology; and—Ecguard. 216 Qiantangjiang Rd., Urumqi, Xinjiang, China; and 17th Floor Tong Guang Building, No 12 Beijing Agricultural Exhibition South, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China; and 17F Tongguang Mansion # 12 Nongzhannanli, Chaoyang, Beijing, China; and 216 Qiantangjiang Road, Urumqi, Xinjiang. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 84 FR 54004, 10/9/19.85 FR 44161, 7/22/20.
Yongli Electronic Components (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd., Room 2818, 28/F, Huishang Center, Jiahui New City, Shenzhen, 518033, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Yun Xia Yuan, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Chilli Yua; and —Yunxia Yuan. Room 203, B Building, No. 57 Busha Road, Nanwan, Longgang, Shenzhen, China; and Room 802, Building B, No. 50, Zhuangcun Road, Xiner Community, Shajing Street, Bao'an District, Shenzhen, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
Yunchip Microelectronics, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Suzhou Yunxin Microelectronics Technology. Kunshan Huaqiao town double International Business Center, Building 40 Room 7-8, chamber 41, chamber 42, China; and 6th Floor, Building 7, Shuanglian International Business Center, 1255 Shangyin Road, Huaqiao, Kunshan City, Jiangsu Province, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Yusha Group Co. Ltd., No.29, Industrial Park Road, Chengdong Industrial Park, Jianli County, Hubei, 433301, China; and Wuling Village, Rongcheng Town, Jianli County, Jingzhou, Hubei, 433300, China; and Zhongxin Road, Jianli County, Jingzhou, Hubei, 433300, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Yusheng Micro Semiconductor (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., 1F-A, 2F-A, Building 2, No. 365 Chuanhong Road, Pudong New District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Yutian Haishi Meitian Electronic Technology Co., Ltd., No. 9, Tuanjie Road, Yutian County Hotan Prefecture, Xinjiang, 848499 China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 18985, 3/30/23.
Yutron Technology Co. Ltd., Room 201-203, Building 7B, International Business Center, 1001 Honghua Road, Futian Free Trade Zone, Shenzhen, China; and Suite B, 11/F, Foo Cheong Building, 82-86 Wing Lok Street, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong; and 24-28 5F, Topsail Plaza, 11 On Sum Street, Shaitin, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 21236, 5/14/19.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Yuwei Semiconductor Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Yuweitek; and —Yuwei Semiconductor. Building 1, No. 469, Huatuo Lane, High-tech Zone, Hefei, China; and Room 295, Building 1, No. 1531, Jincheng East Road, Jiangxi Street, Xinwu District, Wuxi, China; and Room 302-1, Building E1, Saida Testing and Certification Park, No. 5, Xinghua Third Branch Road, Xiqing Economic and Technological Development Zone, Tianjin, China; and Room 404, Qingfeng Rongsheng Venture Capital Building, No. 88-8, Bagua 3rd Road, Shanglin Community, Yuanling Street, Futian District, Shenzhen, China; and Room 309, Building 5, No. 29, Qingxiang South Road, Daxing District, Beijing, China; and Room 202, 2nd Floor and Room 01, Building 10, No. 899 Zuchong Road, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
ZeYuan Technology Limited, Shennan Middle Road, Futian Building, Room 510, Funan Community, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518000, China; and Room 1007, Funan Community, Futian Street, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518000, China; and Room 3009, Funan Community, Futian Street, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518000, China; and 45-51 Chatham Road South, Chevalier House Room 803, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Zhangjiang Laboratory, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Zhangjiang Lab; —Zhangjiang National Lab; and —ZJLab. No. 100, Haike Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, China; and No. 99, Haike Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.4(a)(9), 734.9(e)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) 5 | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Zhao Gang, No. 92 Weijin Road, Tianjin, China 300072; and 3rd Floor, Room 316, A2 Building, Tianjin University Science Park, No. 80, 4th Avenue, Tianjin Economic Development Area (TEDA), Tianjin, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
Zhejiang Aerospace Hengjia Data Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Hengjia Data; and —HTHJSJ. Room 101, Building 42, Hangzhou Bay New Economic Park, Jiaxing Port Area, Zhejiang Province, China; and Building 35, New Economic Park, Jiaxing Port District, Jiaxing City, Zhejiang Province, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Zhejiang Foso Electronics Technology Co. Ltd., No. 8 Haining Avenue, Caohejing Technology Park, Block 13, Haining, Jiaxing, Zhejiang, 314400, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Zhejiang Shenqihang Technology Co., Ltd., No. 17, Binhe Road, Qingshan Lake Street, Lin'an District, Hangzhou, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Zhejiang Uniview Technologies Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Uniview. No. 369, Xietong Road, Xixing Sub-district, Binjiang District, Hangzhou City, Zhejiang Province, 310051, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 99703, 12/11/24.
Zhejiang Zhichun Precision Manufacturing Co., Ltd., Room 412, Building 1, No. 8, Xinzhong Road, Haining Economic Development Zone (Haichang Street), Haining City, Jiaxing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Zhiwei Semiconductor (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Ultron. Room 306, Building 1, No. 170 Zihai Road, Minhang District, Shanghai. China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Zhiyi High Purity Electronic Materials (Shanghai) Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Finetron. Room 306, Building 1, No. 170 Zihai Road, Minhang District, Shanghai. China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Zhongke Xingtu Space Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Zhongke Starmap Space Technology Co., Ltd. Floor 9, Block B, Huihang Plaza, Middle Section of Hangtuo Road, National Civil Aerospace Industry Base, Xi'an, Shaanxi, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 41888, 5/14/24.
Zhongke Xinliang (Beijing) Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Xinlian Technology Co., Ltd.; and —Sinoinfoun. Room 131, 1st Floor, Building 3, No. 6, Fufeng Road, Science City, Fengtai District, Beijing, China; and 1103-2, Building 1, Beihang Science and Technology Park, No. 588 Feitian Road, National Civil Aerospace Industry Base, Shaanxi Province, Xi'an City, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
Zhongtian Technology Submarine Cable Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—ZTT Cable. No. 1, Xinkai South Road, Nantong Economic and Technological Development Zone, China. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Zhou Zhenyong, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Benny Zhou; and—Zhenyong Zhou. Room 1007, Block C2, Galaxy Century Bldg., CaiTian Rd., FuTian District, Shenzhen, China; and Room 1702, Tower B, Honesty Building, Humen, Dongguan, Guangdong, China; and G/F, No. 89, Fuyan Street, Kwun Tong, Hong Kong; and Flat 12, 9F Po Hong Kong 2 Wang Tung Street, Kowloon Bay, Hong Kong; and Flat/RM B 8/F, Chong Ming Bldg., 72 Cheung Sha Wan Road, KL, Hong Kong; and Flat/RM 2309, 23/F, Ho King COMM Center, 2-16 Fa Yuen Street, Mongkok KLN, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 67062, 10/31/11.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Zhu Jiejin, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Anna Zhu. Rm 408 Bldg. 3 No 911-11 Hulan Rd., Boashan District, Shanghai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 34497, 6/5/20.
Zhu Kuibao, No. 51 Yongding Rd., Haidian District, Beijing, China; and No. 37 Xueyuan Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 24565, 5/1/14.
Zhuhai Biren Integrated Circuit Co., Ltd., Building 18, Room 419, No. 1889 Huandao East Road, Hengqin New District, Zhuhai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 71992, 10/19/23.
Zhuhai Cornerstone Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Cornerstone Technologies Company. Room 602, Building 1, No. 18, Nangang Middle Road, Zhuhai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Zhuhai Orbita Control Systems, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Zhuhai Orbita Control Engineering;—Zhuhai Orbita Aerospace Science and Technology; and—Orbita. Orbita Tech Park, No.1, Baisha Road, Tangjia Dongan, Zhuhai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 51877, 8/24/22.
Zhuhai Skyverse Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Zhuhai Nanolighting Technology Co., Ltd. Card No. 03, Room 401, Building 21, No. 1889 Huandao East Road, Hengqin New District, Zhuhai, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Zibo Keyuanxin Fluorine Trading Ltd., No. 5, Road 4, Gaoqing Chemical Industry Park, Gaocheng Town, Gaoqing County, Zibo, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Zibo Topred International Trading Company, 27-3-301, Wotuan Zone, Boshan, Zibo, Shandong, China. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Zixis Limited, 501-503 Castle Peak Road, Unit B090, International Industrial Building, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Unit D, 16/F One Capital Place, 18 Luard Rd, Wan Chai, Hong Kong and Unit A22, Block A, 10/F, Prince Industrial Building, 706 Prince Edward Road East, San Po Kong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
ZM International Company Ltd., 4/F Enterprise Bldg 228-238, Queen's Road Central, Hong Kong; and Room C, 22/F, 235 Wing Lok Street, Trade Centre, Sheung Wan, N.T., Hong Kong. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 44824, 9/4/18. 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Zone Chips Electronics Hong Kong Co., Limited, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —BomChips; and —SQXY Technology (Shenzhen) Co. Room 2811/Building Shijihui, Shennan Avenue 3018, Futian District, Shenzhen, China; and Unit 2 D6, 2nd Floor, Mai Wah Industrial Building, Nos. 1/7, Wah Sing Street, Kwai Chung, New Territories, Hong Kong; and 22 Huafu Road, Hangdu Building E, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518000 China; and Metropolitan Heights at Century Place, Room 3417, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518000, China. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
COSTA RICA | Huawei Technologies Costa Rica SA, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Huawei Technologies Costa Rica Sociedad Anonima. S.J, Sabana Norte, Detras De Burger King, Edif Gru, Po Nueva, San Jose, Costa Rica. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Novax Group S.A., Centro Corporative Lindora, Oficina Nro. 2-10, Pozos de Santa Ana, San Jose, 10903, Costa Rica. (See alternate addresses under Ecuador, Panama, Russia, and Venezuela). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 80957, 11/21/23.
CRIMEA REGION OF UKRAINE | Aktsionernoe Obschestvo 'Yaltinskaya Kinodstudiya,' a.k.a., the following eight aliases:—CJSC Yalta-Film;—Film Studio Yalta-Film;—Joint Stock Company Yalta Film Studio;—JSC Yalta Film Studio;—Kinostudiya Yalta-Film;—Oao Yaltinskaya Kinostudiya;—Yalta Film Studio; and—Yalta Film Studios Ulitsa Mukhina, Building 3, Yalta, Crimea 298063, Ukraine; and Sevastopolskaya 4, Yalta, Crimea, Ukraine. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 80646, 12/28/15.
Chernomorneftegaz,a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Chornomornaftogaz, and—NJSC Chornomornaftogaz. Kirova/per. Sovnarkomovskaya, 52/1, Simferopol, Crimea, 95000, Ukraine. (See Ukraine). | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 21396, 4/16/14.
Crimean Enterprise Azov Distillery Plant, a.k.a., the following five aliases:—Azovsky Likerogorilchany Zavod, Krymske Respublikanske Pidpryemstvo;—Azovsky Likerovo-Dochny Zavod;—Crimean Republican Enterprise Azov Distillery;—Crimean Republican Enterprise Azovsky Likerovodochny Zavod; and—Krymske Respublikanske Pidpryemstvo Azovsky Likerogorilchany Zavod Bud. 40 vul. Zaliznychna, Smt Azovske, Dzhankoisky R-N, Crimea 96178, Ukraine; and 40 Railway St., Azov, Dzhankoy District 96178, Ukraine; and 40 Zeleznodorozhnaya str., Azov, Jankoysky District 96178, Ukraine. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 80646, 12/28/15.
Crimean Ports, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—State Unitary Enterprise of the Republic of Crimea 'Crimean Ports';—Sue RC 'KMP'; and—Sue RK 'Crimean Ports' 28 Kirov Street, Kerch, Crimea Region of Ukraine 98312. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 94968, 12/27/16.
Crimean Railway, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Federal State Unitary Enterprise 'Crimean Railway';—Krymzhd; and—The Railways of Crimea 34 Pavlenko Street, Simferopol, Crimea Region of Ukraine 95006. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 94968, 12/27/16.
FAU 'Glavgosekspertiza Rossii', a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Federal Autonomous Institution 'Main Directorate of State Examination';—General Board of State Expert Review; and—Glavgosekspertiza. 13 Demidova Street, Sevastopol, Crimea, Ukraine; and 10 Vokzalnaya Street, Sevastopol, Crimea, Ukraine (See alternate address under Russia). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
Federal SUE Shipyard 'Morye', a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Federal State Unitary Enterprise SZ Morye;—FSUE SZ 'Morye';—Morye Shipyard; and—More Shipyard. 1 Desantnikov Street, Feodosia, Crimea 98176, Ukraine | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
Feodosiya Enterprise, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Feodosia Oil Products Supply Co.; and—Feodosiya Enterprise on Providing Oil Products; and—Feodosiyske Company for the Oil; and—Theodosiya Oil Terminal. Feodosiya, Geologicheskaya str. 2, Crimea 98107, Ukraine; and Feodosia, Str. Geological 2, Crimea 98107, Ukraine (See alternate address under Ukraine) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 42455, 7/22/14.
Joint Stock Company Special Research Bureau of Moscow Power Engineering Institute, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —JSC Special Research Bureau of Moscow Power Engineering Institute; —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Osoboe Konstruktorskoe Byuro Moskovskogo Energeticheskogo Instituta; —AO Osoboe Konstruktorskoe Byuro Moskovskogo Energeticheskogo Instituta; —Osoboe Konstruktorskoe Byuro Moskovskogo Energeticheskogo Instituta, OAO; —AO OKB MEI; and —JSC OKB MEI. 15 Stepnaya Street, Vitino, Sakski Region, Crimea, 296580, Ukraine; and 3 Kotsyubinskogo Region, Solnechnogorskoe Village, Alushta, Crimea, 298532, Ukraine. (See alternate addresses under Russia.) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
KPSK, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Krymskaya Pervaya Strakhovaya Kompaniya'; and—OOO 'Krymskaya Pervaya Strakhovaya Kompaniya' 29 ul. Karla Marksa, Simferopol, Crimea 295006, Ukraine | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 28408, 6/22/17.
OAO 'Uranis-Radiosistemy', a.k.a., the following three aliases:—OJSC 'Uranis Radio Systems';—OJSC Uranis-Radiosistemy; and—Uranis-Radiosistemy OAO. 33 G, Vakulenchuk Street, Sevastopol, Crimea 99053, Ukraine. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
OAO Ship Repair Center 'Zvezdochka', a.k.a., the following four aliases:— 'Zvezdochka' Shipyard;—AO Ship Repair Center 'Zvezdochka';—Joint Stock Company Ship Repair Center 'Zvezdochka;' and—Ship Repair Center Zvezdochka. 13 Geroyev Sevastopolya Street, Sevastopol, Crimea 99001, Ukraine (See alternate address in Russia). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
OOO Shipyard 'Zaliv' (f.k.a., AO Shipyard 'Zaliv'; JSC Shipyard 'Zaliv;' JSC Zaliv Shipyard; and OJSC ZALIV SHIPYARD), a.k.a., the following two aliases:—LLC Shipyard 'Zaliv'; and—Zaliv Shipyard LLC. 4 Tankistov Street, Kerch, Crimea 98310, Ukraine. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
Resort Nizhnyaya Oreanda (f.k.a., Federalnoe Gosudarstvennoe Byudzhetnoe Uchrezhdenie Sanatori Nizhnyaya Oreanda Upravleniya), a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Federalnoe Gosudarstvennoe Byudzhetnoe Uchrezhdenie Sanatori Nizhnyaya Oreanda Upravleniya Delami Prezidenta Rossiskoi Fe;—FGBU Sanatori Nizhnyaya Oreanda; and—Sanatorium Nizhnyaya Oreanda Pgt Oreanda, Dom 12, Yalta, Crimea 298658, Ukraine; and Resort Nizhnyaya Oreanda, Oreanda, Yalta 08655, Crimea; Oreanda—12, Yalta 298658, Crimea. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 80646, 12/28/15.
Riviera Sunrise Resort & Spa, a.k.a. the following one alias:—Riviera Sunrise Resort and Spa Lenin St. 2, Alushta, Crimea 29850, Ukraine | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 28408, 6/22/17.
SMT-K, a.k.a., the following six aliases:—Krym SMT OOO LLC;—LLC CMT Crimea;—OOO 'CMT-K';—OOO 'SMT-K';—SMT-Crimea; and—Sovmortrans-Crimea. ul. Zoi Zhiltsovoy, d. 15, office 51, Simferopol, Crimea, Ukraine. (See Alternate address under Russia) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
State Concern National Production and Agricultural Association Massandra, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Massandra National Industrial Agrarian Association of Wine Industry;—Massandra State Concern, National Production and Agrarian Union, OJSC;—Nacionalnoye Proiz-Vodstvenno Agrarnoye Obyedinenye Massandra; and—State Concern National Association of Producers Massandra 6, str. Mira, Massandra, Yalta 98600, Ukraine; and 6, Mira str., Massandra, Yalta, Crimea 98650, Ukraine; and Mira str, h. 6, Massandra, Yalta, Crimea 98600, Ukraine; and 6, Myra st., Massandra, Crimea 98650, Ukraine. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 80646, 12/28/15.
State Enterprise Evpatoria Sea Commercial Port, a.k.a., the following eight aliases:—Port of Evpatoria;—Port of Yevpatoria;—Seaport of Yevpatoriya;—Yevpatoria Commercial Seaport;—Yevpatoria Merchant Sea Port;—Yevpatoria Sea Port;—Yevpatoriya Commercial Sea Port; and—Yevpatoriya Sea Port Mariners Square 1, Evpatoria, Crimea 97416, Ukraine; and 1, Moryakov Sq, Yevpatoriya, Crimea 97408, Ukraine; and 1 Moryakov Sq., Yevpatoria, Crimea 97416, Ukraine; and 1 Moryakov Sq, Yevpatoriya, Crimea 97416, Ukraine. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15.
State Enterprise Factory of Sparkling Wine Novy Svet, a.k.a., the following six aliases:—Derzhavne Pidpryemstvo Zavod Shampanskykh Vyn Novy Svit;—Gosudarstvenoye Predpriyatiye Zavod Shampanskykh Vin Novy Svet;—Novy Svet Winery;—Novy Svet Winery State Enterprise;—State Enterprise Factory of Sparkling Wines New World; and—Zavod Shampanskykh Vyn Novy Svit, DP 1 Shaliapin Street, Novy Svet Village, Sudak, Crimea 98032, Ukraine; and Bud. 1 vul. Shalyapina Smt, Novy Svit, Sudak, Crimea 98032, Ukraine; and 1 Shalyapina str. Novy Svet, Sudak 98032, Ukraine. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 80646, 12/28/15.
State Enterprise Feodosia Sea Trading Port, a.k.a., the following five aliases:—Port of Feodosia;—Seaport of Feodosiya;—Theodosia Commercial Seaport;—Theodosia Merchant Sea Port; and—Theodosia Sea Port 14 Gorky Street, Theodosia 98100, Ukraine,; and 14, Gorky Str., Feodosiya, Crimea 98100, Ukraine; and Gorky Street 11, Feodosia, Crimea 98100, Ukraine. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15.
State Enterprise Kerch Sea Commercial Port, a.k.a., the following six aliases:—Kerch Commercial Seaport;—Kerch Merchant Sea Port;—Kerch Sea Port;—Port of Kerch;—Seaport of Kerch; and—State Enterprise Kerch Commercial Sea Port Kirova Street 28, Kerch, Crimea 98312, Ukraine; and 28 Kirova Str., Kerch, Crimea 98312, Ukraine; and 28, Kirov Str., Kerch, Crimea 98312, Ukraine; and Ul. Kirov, 28, Kerch, Crimea 98312, Ukraine; and ul Kirova 28, Kerch 98312, Ukraine. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15.
State Enterprise Magarach of the National Institute of Wine, a.k.a., the following five aliases:—Agrofirma Magarach Natsionalnogo Instytutu Vynogradu I Vyna Magarach, DP;—Derzhavne Pidpryemstvo Agrofirma Magarach Natsionalnogo Instytutu Vynogradu I Vyna Magarach;—Gosudarstvenoye Predpriyatiye Agro-Firma Magarach Nacionalnogo Instituta Vinograda I Vina Magarach;—Magarach Agricultural Company Of National Institute Of Wine And Grapes Magarach; and—State Enterprise Agricultural Company Magarach National Institute of Vine and Wine Magarach Bud. 9 vul. Chapaeva, S.Viline, Bakhchysaraisky R-N, Crimea 98433, Ukraine; and 9 Chapayeva str., Vilino, Bakhchisaray Region, Crimea 98433, and Ukraine; and 9 Chapayeva str., Vilino, Bakhchisarayski district 98433, Ukraine; and 9, Chapaeva Str., Vilino, Bakhchisaray Region, Crimea 98433, Ukraine. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 80646, 12/28/15.
State Enterprise Sevastopol Sea Trading Port, a.k.a., the following seven aliases:—Port of Sevastopol;—Seaport of Sevastopol;—Sevastopol Commercial Seaport;—Sevastopol Merchant Sea Port;—Sevastopol Sea Port;—Sevastopol Sea Trade Port; and—State Enterprise Sevastopol Commercial Seaport 3 Place Nakhimova, Sevastopol 99011, Ukraine; and 5, Nakhimova square, Sevastopol, Crimea 99011, Ukraine; and Nahimova Square 5, Sevastopol, Crimea 99011, Ukraine. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15.
State Enterprise Universal-Avia, a.k.a., the following six aliases:—Crimean State Aviation Enterprise Universal-Avia;—Gosudarstvennoe Unitarnoe Predpriyatie Respubliki Krym Universal;—Gosudarstvennoe Unitarnoe Predpriyatie Respubliki Krym Universal-Avia;—Gosudarstvenoye Predpriyatiye Universal-Avia;—Universal-Avia, Crimea State Aviation Enterprise; and—Universal-Avia, Gup RK 5, Aeroflotskaya Street, Simferopol, Crimea 95024, Ukraine. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 80646, 12/28/15.
State Enterprise Yalta Sea Trading Port, a.k.a., the following five aliases:—Port of Yalta;—Seaport of Yalta;—Yalta Commercial Seaport;—Yalta Merchant Sea Port; and—Yalta Sea Port Roosevelt Street 3, Yalta, Crimea 98600, Ukraine; and 5, Roosevelt Str., Yalta, Crimea 98600, Ukraine; and 5 Roosevelt Street, Yalta, Crimea 98600, Ukraine. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15.
State Shipping Company Kerch Sea Ferry, a.k.a., the following one alias:—State Ferry Enterprise Kerch Ferry. Tselimbernaya Street 16, Kerch, Crimea, 98307, Ukraine; and 16 Tselibernaya Street, Kerch, Crimea 98307, Ukraine | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15.
Subsidiary Sevastopol Naval Plant of Zvezdochka Shipyard, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Sevastopol Naval Plant; and —Sevastopol Naval Plant N.A. Sergo Ordzhonikidze. 13 Geroyev Sevastopolya Street, Sevastopol, Crimea, 299001, Ukraine. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Sue RC 'Feodosia Optical Plant', a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Feodosia State Optical Plant; and—State Optical Plant—Feodosia. Feodosia State Optical Plant, 11 Moskovskaya Street, Feodosia, Crimea 98100, Ukraine. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
CUBA | Huawei Cuba, Cuba. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
CYPRUS | Alexander Nikolayevich Vadyunin, Flat 202, Block 7 Kings Palace, 106 Tomb of the Kings Road, Paphos, 8015, Cyprus. (See alternate addresses under Russia) | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Didessar Limited, Archbishop Makarios III Ave, Nicosia, Cyprus. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Eriner Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Eriner LTD. Inomenon Ethon 44, Orthodoxou Tower 3, 3rd floor, Larnaca 6042, Cyprus. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
IPP Oil Products (Cyprus) Limited, 12 Esperidon Street, 4th Floor, Nicosia 1087, Cyprus. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15.
Leondica Holding Ltd, 25 Kolonakiou Str, Za Vos Kolonakioy Center, Limassol, Cyprus. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Merlion Trade Worldwide Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Merlion Trade Worldwide Limited; and —Merlion Trade Worldwide. Office 2, 1st Floor, Uad Court, 135 Omonoias Street, Limassol, 3045, Cyprus; and Christabel House, 118 Agias Fylaxeos, Limassol, 3087, Cyprus; and 10 Pikioni Street, Limassol, 3075, Cyprus. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Niki Panteli Kyriakou, 91, Evgeniou Voulgareous, Limassol 4153, Cyprus. (See alternate address under United Kingdom) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
OOO Aviation Service Int'l, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Aviation Services Int'l; and —Aviation Service International. 106 Tomb of the Kings Road, Flat 202, Block 7 Kings Palace, Paphos, 8015, Cyprus. (See alternate addresses under Russia) | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Rosneft Trade Limited, f.k.a., TNK Trade Limited. Elenion Building 5 Themistokli Dervi, 2nd floor, Lefkosia, Nicosia 1066, Cyprus. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Southport Management Services Limited, Nicosia, Cyprus. (See also address under United Kingdom) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15.
Stroytransgaz Holding, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—STG Holding Limited, and—STG Holdings Limited, and—Stroytransgaz Holding Limited, and—STGH. 33 Stasinou Street, Office 2 2003, Nicosia Strovolos, Cyprus. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 24561, 5/1/14.
The Mother Ark., Inomenon Ethon 44, Orthodoxou Tower 3, 3rd floor Larnaca, 6042, Cyprus. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
White Seal Holdings Limited, 115 Spyrou Kyprianou Avenue, Limassol 3077, Cyprus. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 80646, 12/28/15.
DENMARK | Huawei Denmark, Vestre Teglgade 9, Kobenhavn Sv, Hovedstaden, 2450, Denmark. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
ECUADOR | Novax Group S.A., Avenida Joaquin Orrantia y Juan Tanca Marengo, Torres del Mall del Sol Piso 4, Torre B, Guayaquil, Ecuador. (See alternate addresses under Costa Rica, Panama, Russia, and Venezuela). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 80957, 11/21/23.
EGYPT | AL-AMIR ELECTRONICS, 46 Falaki St. BabLouk Area, Cairo, Egypt. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 24590, 4/25/12.
Huawei OpenLab Cairo, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Huawei Cairo OpenLab. Cairo-Alex Desert Rd, Al Giza Desert, Giza Governorate, Egypt. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Technology, Cairo, Egypt. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Steel Design LLC, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —TRME; and —Turbo Resources. 1 Zahra El Maadi El Morshedy Building, Tower A, Cairo, Egypt; and Rehana Tower A1 Elmorshedy, Zahra El Maadi, Cairo, Egypt.; and Memaar El Morshedy, Rayhanah Residence Zahraa Maadi, Cairo, Egypt. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
ESTONIA | Adimir OU, Akadeemia Tee 21E, 12618 Tallinn, Estonia; and Peterburi Tee 47-210, 11415 Tallinn, Estonia; and Vabaohukooli tee 76-A9 Tallinn, 12015 Estonia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Andrey Shevlyakov, Kalevipoja 12A, 13625 Tallinn, Estonia | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61249, 10/9/12. 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Eastline Technologies OU, Akadeemia Tee 21E, 12618 Tallinn, Estonia; and Peterburi Tee 47-210, 11415 Tallinn, Estonia; and Vabaohukooli tee 76-A9 Tallinn, 12015 Estonia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Elmec Trade OU, Katusepapi tn 6-502, Lasnamäe linnaosa, Tallinn, Harju maakond, 11412, Estonia; and Valukoja tn 8/1, Tallinn, 11415, Estonia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Valery Kosmachov Akadeemia Tee 21E, 12618 Tallinn, Estonia; and Peterburi Tee 47-210, 11415 Tallinn, Estonia; and Vabaohukooli tee 76-A9 Tallinn, 12015 Estonia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Yaxart OU, Kalevipoja 12A, 13625 Tallinn, Estonia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
FINLAND | Airfix Aviation Oy, Tullimiehentie 4-6, Vantaa 01530, Finland. (See also address under Switzerland) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15.
Aleksei Kolominen, 20 Nuolitie, Vantaa, Finland 01740. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Andrey Kirievski, Lastaajanvayla 22, Lappeenranta, Finland 53420. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Eliron Logistics Oy, Vanha Porvoontie 229, Vantaa, Finland 01380. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Evolog Oy, Vanha Porvoontie 231A, Vantaa, 01380, Finland; and Tikkurilantie 10, Vantaa, 01380, Finland; and Kaskikalliontie 16F6, Vantaa, 01200, Finland. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
Irina Pavlova, Lastaajanvayla 22, Lappeenranta, Finland 53420. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Kuusiaaren Sarnetex & Ter Oy, Kaasuntintie 8A, Helsinski, Finland 00770. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Lemon LLC Oy, Peltoinlahdentie 19, FI-54800 Savitaipale. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Luminor Oy, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —FinPost; and —Luminor Logistics. Hakintie 7A, Vantaa, Uusimaa, 01380, Finland. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
Olkebor Oy, 231B Vanha Porvoontie, Vantaa, Finland 01380. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12. 78 FR 3319, 1/16/13. 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.
PT Technology Asia Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias: —PT-Technology Asia Limited. Valtakatu 52, Lappeenranta, 53100, Finland. (See alternate address under China). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Russian Cargo Oy, 22 Lastaajanvayla, Lappeenranta, Finland 53420. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Set Petrochemicals Oy, Ukonvaaja 2 A, Espoo 02130, Finland. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15.
Siberica Oy, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Siberica. Hakintie 7A, Vantaa, 01380, Finland. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
SM Way Oy, Lastaajanvayla 22, Lappeenranta, Finland 53420. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Southeast Trading Oy, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Southeast Trading LTD. Espoo, Finland; and Kannelkatu 8, Lappeenranta 53100, Finland; and PL 148, Lappeenranta 53101, Finland (See also addresses under Romania and Russia) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15.
Transsphere Oy, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Transsphere Limited Oy; and—Transsphere Oy Ltd., 20 Nuolitie, Vantaa, Finland 01740. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Vitaliy Dankov, Vanha Porvoontie 231B, Vantaa, Finland 01380. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
FRANCE | Aerotechnic France SAS, 8 Rue de la Bruyere, 31120 Pinsaguel, France. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 37633, 6/28/11.
China HEAD Aerospace Technology Co., a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —China HEAD; —China HEAD Technology Co; —HEAD Aerospace; —HEAD Aerospace Group; —HEAD Aerospace Netherlands; —HEAD France; and —HEAD Technology France. 71 Boulevard national, 92250 La Garenne-Colombes Paris, France. (See alternate address under China and Netherlands). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b), and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 12171, 2/27/23.
Dart Aviation, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —Dart Aviation Technics; —Dart Aviation Marlbrine S.A.R.L.; —MBP Trading Ltd.; —Almo Aero; —Almo Aero (Dart Aviation Technics) (IEAS); and —SARL IEAS. 3, Rue de la Janaie—ZA Yves Burgot, 35400 Saint Malo I&V, France; and Rue des Rougeries, 35400 Saint-Malo, France. (See alternate addresses under Iran, Senegal and the United Kingdom). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19. 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20. 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
France Tech Services, a.k.a., the following one alias:—France Technology Services. 73 Rue Jean Jaures 92800 Puteaux, France. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
Huawei Cloud France, Paris, France. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei France, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Huawei Technologies France SASU. 36-38, quai du Point du Jour, 92659 Boulogne-Billancourt cedex, France. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei OpenLab Paris, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Huawei Paris OpenLab. 101 Boulevard Murat, 75016 Paris, France. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
IKCO France, 147 Avenue Charles de Gaulle, 92200, Neuilly-Sur-Seine, France. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 24590, 4/25/12.
Kish Motor Jahan Technic, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Kisk Motor Jahan Technic. 3, Route De Cessey Road, 25440 Charnay, Franche-Comte, France. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Luc Teuly, 8 Rue de la Bruyere, 31120 Pinsaguel, France. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 37633, 6/28/11.
Philippe Sanchez, 8 Rue de la Bruyere, 31120 Pinsaguel, France. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 37633, 6/28/11.
GEORGIA | Gensis Engineering, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Gensis Muhendislik Danismanlik. No. 2 Flat Loselianis Ave. Tbilisi, Georgia. (see alternate address under Turkey). | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Georgia Petrochemical and Aviatech, No. 35 Bldg. V Moscow Avenue, Tbilisi, Georgia | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
ROV Solutions, 12A Tahkenti Street, Tbilisi, Georgia. (see alternate address under China). | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
SAEROS Safety ERO Company, No. 2 Flat Loselianis Ave. Tbilisi, Georgia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
ZAO Vneshtorgservis, 1 Geroyev Street, Tskhinval, South Ossetia, Georgia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 6952, 2/16/18.
GERMANY | Albrecht Import-Export, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Elena Albrecht Import-Export, Gmunder Str. 25, Heubach, Germany 73540. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Alexander Brovarenko, Fasanenweg 9L, Kelsterbach, Germany D-65451; and Fasanenweg 9, Gate 23, Kelsterbach, Germany 65451; and Fasanenweg 7, Kelsterbach, Germany D-65451; and IM Taubengrund 35 Gate 1-2, Kelsterbach, Germany 65451. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Chimconnect GmbH, Reichenauestrasse 1a, DE-78467, Konstanz, Germany. | For all items subject to the EAR | See §§ 744.2(d), 744.3(d), and 744.4(d) of this part | 86 FR 12531, 3/4/21.
Christof Schneider, Margaretenweg #10, 42929 Wermelskirchen, Germany; and P.O Box 501168, D-42904, Wermelskirchen, Germany; and Neuenhaus 96, 42929, Wermelskirchen, Germany | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 74 FR 35797 7/21/09. 78 FR 18811, 3/28/13.
Djamshid Nezhad, a.k.a. the following alias:—Nezhad Djamshid. Poppentrade 25, D-24148 Kiel, Germany; and Moesemann 2, 24144, Hamburg, Germany. | Presumption of denial | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | 73 FR 54504,9/22/08.77 FR 24590, 4/25/12.
Elena Albrecht, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Elena Grinenko, Gmunder Str. 25, Heubach, Germany 73540. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
FTL GmBH, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Fast Transport Logistics GmBH. Konrad-Zuse-Ring 15A, Schoneck, 61137, Germany. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Hans Werner Schneider, Bertha von Suttner Weg #1, 42929 Wermelskirchen, Germany | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 74 FR 35799, 7/21/09.
Huawei Cloud Berlin, Berlin Germany. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei OpenLab Munich, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Huawei Munich OpenLab. Huawei Germany Region R&D Centre Riesstr. 22 80992 Munich, Germany; and Huawei Germany Region R&D Centre Riesstr. 12 80992 Munich, Germany. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20. 86 FR 12531, 3/4/2021. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Technologies Deutschland GmbH, Germany. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Technologies Dusseldorf GmbH, Huawei Germany Region R&D Centre Riesstr. 25, 80992 Munich, Germany, and Am Seestern 24 Duesseldorf, D-40547 Germany. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
ICW-Industrial Components Weirich, Geranienstr. 35, Heusweiler, 66265, Germany. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
IKCO Trading GmbH, Schadowplatz 5, 40212 Dusseldorf, Germany; and Kaiserswerther Str. 117, 40474, Düsseldorf, Germany | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54504, 9/22/08.77 FR 24590, 4/25/12.
Interquest GmbH, Karolinenstrasse 21C, Berlin, 13507, Germany. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23.
Manufacturers Equipment Organization (MEO), a.k.a. the following one alias: -MEO GMBH P.O Box 501168, D-42904, Wermelskirchen, Germany; and Neuenhaus 96, 42929, Wermelskirchen, Germany | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 18811, 3/28/13.
MRS GmbH, a.k.a., the following one alias:—MRS International. Wiener Strasse 23 A Regensburg, Germany 93065; and Gewerhofstrasse 11 Essen, Germany 45145. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
Nezhad Enterprise Company, a.k.a. the following three aliases:—Nezhad Co.;—Nezhad Enterprise; and—Nezhad Trading Poppentrade 25, D-24148 Kiel, Germany; and Moesemann 2, 24144, Hamburg, Germany. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54504, 9/22/08.77 FR 24590, 4/25/12.
Pharmcontract GmbH., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Farmkontract GmbH. Goethestrasse 4-8 D-60313 Frankfurt am Main, Germany. | For all items subject to the EAR | See §§ 744.2(d), 744.3(d), and 744.4(d) of this part | 86 FR 12531, 3/4/21.
Riol-Chemie, Gobelstrasse 21, Lilienthal, Germany. | For all items subject to the EAR | See §§ 744.2(d), 744.3(d), and 744.4(d) of this part | 86 FR 12531, 3/4/21.
Russ Cargo Service GMBH, Fasanenweg 9L, Kelsterbach, Germany D-65451; and Fasanenweg 9, Gate 23, Kelsterbach, Germany 65451; and Fasanenweg 7, Kelsterbach, Germany D-65451; and IM Taubengrund 35 Gate 1-2, Kelsterbach, Germany 65451. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Schneider GMBH, Thomas Mann Str. 35-37, 42929 Wermelskirchen, Germany; and P.O. Box 1523, Wermelskirchen, 42908 DE; and Thomas Mann Str., 35-37, P.O. Box 1523, Wermelskirchen, 42908 DE | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 74 FR 35799, 7/21/09.
Sergey Grinenko, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Sergey Albrecht, Gmunder Str. 25, Heubach, Germany 73540. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
GREECE | Aeolian Airlines, 551 Mesogeion Ave, Agia Paraskevi, 15343A, Athens, Greece; and72 Vouliagmenis Ave, Glyfada 16675, Athens, Greece; andBlg Mtb 1/E 74, Athens, Greece; and 58 Vouliagmenis Ave, Voula 16673, Athens, Greece;(See alternate addresses under Turkey) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Aerospace One, S.A., 24 Andrea Koumpi Str. Markopoulo19003 Attica, Greece. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 56003, 9/18/14.
Intellexa S.A., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Intellexa Anonymi Etaireia. Vouliagmenis Ave. & 14 Hatzievaggelou Elliniko, 16777, Greece; and Leof Vouliagmenis 47, 16777, Elliniko, Greece; and Irodou Attikou Streeet 7, Athens, Greece; and Karaoli Dimitriou 1 & Vasiliss 1, 15231, Athens, Greece. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 46072, 7/19/23.
Sergei (Sergi) Ivanovich Tomchani, a.k.a., Sergey Ivanovich Tomchani, 58, Vouliagmenis Ave Voula, 16673, Athens, Greece (See alternate addresses under Ukraine and United Kingdom) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
Seyyed Abdolreza Mousavi, 551 Mesogeion Ave, Agia Paraskevi, 15343A, Athens, Greece; (See alternate address under Turkey) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Sky Wings Airlines SA, 58, Vouliagmenis Ave Voula, 16673, Athens, Greece. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
Socrates Vasilakis, 58, Vouliagmenis Ave Voula, 16673, Athens, Greece. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
Veteran Avia LLC a.k.a., the following alias:—Veteran Airline. 24, A. Koumbi Street, Markopoulo 190 03, Attika, Greece (See also addresses under Armenia, Pakistan, and U.K.) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 56003, 9/18/14. 81 FR 8829, 2/23/16. 82 FR 2887, 1/10/17.
HUNGARY | Cytrox Holdings Zrt, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Cytrox Holdings Zartkoruen Mukodo Reszvenytarsasag. Deák Ferenc tér 3. Budapest, 1052 Hungary. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 46072, 7/19/23.
INDIA | The following Department of Atomic Energy entities: —Nuclear reactors (including power plants) not under International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards, (excluding Kundankulam 1 and 2); —Fuel reprocessing and enrichment facilities; and —Heavy water production facilities and their collocated ammonia plants. | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case for all items listed on the CCL. Presumption of approval for EAR99 items. See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 63 FR 64322, 11/19/98 65 FR 14444, 3/17/00 66 FR 50090, 10/1/01 69 FR 56694, 9/22/04 90 FR 4619, 1/16/25.
Abhar Technologies and Services Private Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Abhartech. RMZ Latitude Building, 10th Floor, Bellary Road, Hebbal, Bangalore, Karnataka, 560024, India; and No 6, 80 Feet Road, 4th Block, Koramangala, Bangalore, Karnataka, 560034, India. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Agrim Aviation Private Limited, World Trade Centre, 516A 5th Floor, Babar Road, New Delhi, Central Delhi, 110001, India; and B-675, Weavers Colony Ashok Vihar, Phase-IV New Delhi, Delhi, 110052, India; and World Trade Centre, 133 LGF, Babar Road, New Delhi, Delhi, 110001, India; and 133, LGF, World Trade Centre, Babar Road, New Delhi, 110052, India. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Analog Technology Limited, No. 53 40 Feet Road 3rd Cross, Ground Floor, Raghava Nagar, Bangalore, Karnataka, 560026, India. (See alternate address under China). | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Avrora India Marine Systems Pvt. Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Avrora (India) Marine Systems Pvt. Ltd.; and —Avrora (India) Marine Systems Private Limited. 407 Raheja Arcade, Plot No. 61, Sector 11, Central Business District Belapur, Navi Mumbai, Thane, Maharashtra, 400614, India; and 1201/1202 Great Eastern Summit 'B' Plot No. 66, Sector 15, Central Business District Belapur, Navi Mumbai, Maharashtra, 400614, India. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
AR Sales Pvt Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases: —AR Sales Private Ltd; —AR Sales Privat Ltd; —A R Sales Private Ltd; —AR Sales; and —Aarushi Sales Private Ltd. Flat 1009, Prakash Deep Building, Tolstoy Road, New Delhi, Delhi, 110001, India; and 479, Mohalla Maharam, Shahdara, New Delhi, Delhi, 110032, India; and 479, Narendra Kumar, Mohalla Maharam, Shahdara, New Delhi, Delhi, 110032, India; and 106, Delhi Development Authority Building, Laxmi Nagar District Center, Nirman Vihar, New Delhi, Delhi, 110092, India. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
C & I Semiconductor Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —China India Semiconductor Co. Ltd. No. 53 40 Feet Road 3rd Cross, Ground Floor, Raghava Nagar, Bangalore, Karnataka, 560026, India. (See alternate address under China). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Crynofist Aviation, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Crynofist Aviation Fzco; and —Crynofist Design and Engineering Solutions Pvt Ltd. #677, 1st floor, 27 Main, 13th Cross Sector 1, HSR Layout, Bangalore, 560102, India; and Building No. 521/3, 2nd Floor, Toll Junction, Pukkattupady Road Edappally (P.O), Cochin—682024, Kerala, India. (See alternate address under United Arab Emirates). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
FUTREVO, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Future R-Evolution. 31C Bollineni Hillside Road, Apt. Flat 202, Kanchipuram, Tamil Nadu, 600126, India; and 39/12 Haddows Road, Nungambakkam, Chennai, 600006, India; and 3 Dinshaw Vachha Road, Churchgate, Mumbai, 400020, India; and 21 Nehru Place, New Delhi, 110019, India. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Giovan Ltd., C-16A, New Multan Nagar, Surya Enclave, New Rohtak Road 099 Paschim Vihar, New Delhi, India 110056 (See alternate address under China). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Huawei OpenLab Delhi, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Huawei Delhi OpenLab. Delhi, India. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Technologies India Private Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Huawei Technologies India Pvt., Ltd. Level-3/4, Leela Galleria, The Leela Palace, No. 23, Airport Road, Bengaluru, 560008, India; and SYNO 37, 46,45/3,45/4 ETC KNO 1540, Kundalahalli Village Bengaluru Bangalore KA 560037 India. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Innovio Ventures, 944 Block C Sushant Lok Phase 1, Gurugram, Haryana, 122001, India; and Basai Road, Shop No-141, Gurgaon, Haryana, 122001, India. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Si2 Microsystems Private Limited, 84, Deep Towers, EPIP Industrial Area, Whitefield, Bangalore, Karnataka, 560066, India; and #52/A, 1st Cross, 3rd Main KIADB Industrial Area, Hoskote, Bangalore, Karnataka, 562114, India; and 3796, 7th Main, Hal II Stage, Bangalore, Karnataka, 560008, India; and 493/3 Bramhalingeshwara Complex, Airport Road, Bangalore, Karnataka, 560008, India; and 177/2 Bannerghatta Road, Begur Hobli Bilekahalli Industrial Area, Bangalore, Karnataka, 560076, India. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 80957, 11/21/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Technopole Ltd., D-79, New Multan Nagar, Surya Enclave, New Rohtak Road 099 Paschim Vihar, New Delhi, India 110056 (See alternate address under China). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Theorax Dynamics Private Limited, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Theorax Dynamics Pvt Ltd; —Theorax Dynamics; and —Theorax. No. 93, 2nd Floor, Yelenahalli Main Road, Akshayanagar Begur Post, Bangalore, Karnataka, 560008, India; and 2nd Floor, 147 5th Main Road, HSR Layout, Bangalore, Karnataka, 560102, India; and 3rd Floor, Pixel Park A, Hosur Road, Electronic City, Bangalore, Karnataka, 560100, India. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
INDONESIA | Huawei Tech Investment, PT, Bri Ii Building 20Th Floor, Suite 2005, Jl. Jend., Sudirman Kav. 44-46, Jakarta, 10210, Indonesia. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
PT. Kuantum Tekno Kreatif, JI. Sarirasa No. 113 Blok 4 Sanijadi, Kec. Sukasari, Bandung, Indonesia, 40151. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
IRAN | Abbas Goldoozan, No. 86 Negin Tower, Farmaniyeh St., 1937944633 Tehran, Iran (See also alternate address under Turkey). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 22640, 4/23/15.
Aflak Micro Electronics, Tehranno 14, Golkade St., Arash Mehr Ave., Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Ahmad Nozad Gholik, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Ahmad Rahzad, a.k.a., Saeb Karim, 29, 1st Floor, Amjad Bldg., Jomhoori Ave., Tehran, Iran (See alternate address under Malaysia) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Ali Basati, No. 2, 5th floor, Abbasian Bld., Jomhoori Ave., Tehran, Iran; and No. 48, Abbasian Bld, Republic Street, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Ali Mehdipour Omrani. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
Ali Reza Seif, 34 Mansour Street, Tehran, Iran | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Amir Hosein Atabaki, 5 Yaas St, Unit 4, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 74001, 12/5/08.
Anvik Technologies Sdn. Bhd., a.k.a., the following eight aliases:—Anvik Technologies;—Cason Technologies;—Henan Electronics;—Hixton Technologies;—Hudson Technologies, Ltd.;—Hudson Engineering (Hong Kong) Ltd.;—Madison Engineering Ltd.; and—Montana Advanced Engineering. F10, No. 21, 9th Alley, Vozara Ave., Tehran, Iran (See alternate addresses under China and Malaysia). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Arash Servatian, 12 Kandovan Alley Enghelab Ave., Opp. Villa (Ostad Nejatollahi) 1131834914 Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 22640, 4/23/15.
Aref Bali Lashak. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
Arvin Fan Avar Vira Company; a.k.a., the following one alias: —Arvin Fanavar Vira Company. Unit 16, No 3, Corner of 6th Alley, Ebne Yamin St., North Sohrevardi, Tehran, Iran; and No.3, End of Shaghayegh 15, End of Golha Square, Nalkiasher Industrial Zone, Langroud, Iran; and No 16, St. Ibn Yamin, 3rd Floor, Eighth Alley, Shahid Qandi-Niloufar Quarter, Central Sector, Tehran City, Tehran Province, Iran; and No.0 Shagaig St., Ground Floor, Moalem Square, Shahrek neighborhood, Nalkiyasher Industrial Settlement, Dioshel District, Central Sector, Langrod City, Gilan Province, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Atomic Energy Organization of Iran (AEOI), a.k.a. the following two aliases:—Sazeman-e Energy Atomi; and—Sazeman-e Enerji-e Atomi. P.O. Box 14144-1339, End of North Karegar Avenue, Tehran; and P.O. Box 14155-4494, Tehran, Iran; and all locations in Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 72 FR 38008, 7/12/07.77 FR 24590, 4/25/12.
Babak Jafarpour, a.k.a., the following five aliases:—Bob Jefferson;—Peter Jay;—Sam Lee;—Samson Lee; and—David Lee. F10, No. 21, 9th Alley, Vozara Ave., Tehran, Iran (See alternate addresses under China and Malaysia). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Bahman Ghandi, a.k.a., Brian Ghandi, No. 14, Golkadeh St., Arashmehr St., Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Behnam Pouremadi, Tehran Hakimi Gelayol Alley Number 19 100 Tehran 1438371659 24 Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Behnaz Moazen, No. 2, 5th floor, Abbasian Bld., Jomhoori Ave., Tehran, Iran; and No. 2, 5th floor, Abbasian Bld., Republic Street, Tehran, Iran; and No. 48, Abbasian Bld, Republic Street, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Blue Lines Company, Unit 3, 13th Floor, Negar Tower, Vansk Square, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
BuyBest Electronic, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Buy Best Electronic Pars; —Buybest Elektronik İthalat İhracat Limited Şirketi; and —Andriman Group İnşaat İthalat İhracat Sanayi Ve Ticaret Limited Şirketi. Unit 7, No.20, Marvdasht St., Sadeghieh 2nd Sq., Tehran, Iran; and Unit 20, No.7, Marvdasht Alley, Ashrafi Esfahani St., Sadeghieh Second Sq., Tehran, Iran; and Tawakkel Passage, 1st Floor, Unit 110, before reaching Hafez Bridge, Jomohri St., Tehran, Iran. (See alternate addresses under China and Turkey.) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Dart Aviation, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —Dart Aviation Technics; —Dart Aviation Marlbrine S.A.R.L.; —MBP Trading Ltd.; —Almo Aero; —Almo Aero (Dart Aviation Technics) (IEAS); and —SARL IEAS. East Unit, 1st Floor—Building No. 1, Solhparvar Dead End—Bimeh 5th, Karaj Makhsous Avenue, Tehran, Iran. (See alternate addresses under France, Senegal and the United Kingdom). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19. 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20. 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Design and Manufacturing of Aircraft Engines (DAMA), a.k.a., the following four aliases: —DAMA; —Design and Manufacturing of Aero-Engine Company; —Iranian Turbine Manufacturing Industries; and —Turbine Engine Manufacturing Co. Shishesh Mina Street, Karaj Special Road, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b) and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 6622, 2/1/23.
Digi Ghate, No.22, Ground Floor, Tavakkol Passage, Hafez Bridge, Tehran, Iran; and Azadi Innovation Factory, Lashkari Highway, Azadi Square, Tehran, Iran; and No.15, End of Shaghayegh 3, Golha Square Entrance, Nalkiasher Industrial Town, Langroud, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Elaheh Siahpoush, 12 Kandovan Alley Enghelab Ave., Opp. Villa (Ostad Nejatollahi) 1131834914 Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 22640, 4/23/15.
Elecomponents, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Fadjr Marine Industries, a.k.a., SADAF, 169 Malekloo Ave., Farjam Ave., Tehran Pars, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 36519, 6/28/10.
Faradis Production, No. 33, Second Floor, Amjad Electronic Center, Jomhouri Ave., Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Faratel Company, 12 Kandovan Alley Enghelab Ave., Opp. Villa (Ostad Nejatollahi) 1131834914 Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 22640, 4/23/15.
Farhad Maani, 67, 1st Floor, No. 3, Ebn-E Sina St., Mr. ValiAsr Ave., W. of Beheshti, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
FARSCO Aviation MRO Centre, Sanaye Havapeymaei Blvd., Karaj Makhsous Road 13976-13511, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Fidar System Pooyan, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Fidar System Pouyan. Unit 6, No.7, Mahbod Alley, Laleh St., Jomohri St., Tehran, Iran; and No.12, 21th Alley, Ahmad Ghasir St., Argentina Sq, Tehran, Iran; and No.9 Lale Alley, First Floor, Unit 2, Hatef Alley, Chaharrah Hafez Neighborhood, Central Sector, Tehran City, Tehran Province, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
GBNTT, No. 34 Mansour Street, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
General Electronic, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Digital Electronics Engineering Group; —Delta Electronic; and —Keyhan Electronic. Unit 620, 6th floor, Abbasian Building, after Hafez Bridge, Jomhuri Eslami St., Tehran, Iran; and No.B33, Tavakkol Passage before Hafez St., Jomhouri St., Tehran, Iran; and Unit 22, Second floor, Amjad Passage, between Hafez and Si Tir, Jomhouri St., Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Golza Engineering Company, No. 80/1, Fourth Floor, North Sindokht St., Dr. Fatemi Ave., Tehran, 14118, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
H. Farahani, Ground Floor—No. 31, Alborz Alley, EnghelabSt, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 74001, 12/5/08.
Hamid Reza Ansarian, P.O. Box 19575-354, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Hamid Reza Simchi, P.O. Box 19575-354, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 36519, 6/28/10.
Hamid Sepehrian, Jaber Ibn Hayan Research Institute, AEOI, P.O. Box 11365/8486, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Hassan Seifi, Unit #23, Eighth Floor, No. 193 West Sarve Boulevard Kaj Square, Saadat Abad, 19987-14434, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 37633, 6/28/11.
Hossein Ahmad Larijani, No 3 Mirza Kochak Ave., Jomhori Street, Tehran, Iran; and No. 5 Mirzakuchanhan Street, Jomhori Ave., Tehran, Iran; and No. 5 Mirza Kochak Ave., Jomhori Street, Tehran, Iran; and No. 5, Near to Flower Shop Mirza Koochak- Khan Jangali St, 30-Tir Junction, Jomhori St, Tehran, Iran; and Unit 6, No. 37, Goharshad Alley After 30 Tir Jomhori Street, Tehran, Iran; and Forghani Passage, Before 30 Tir, After Havez, Jomhori Ave., Tehran, Iran (See alternate addresses under Singapore) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 67062, 10/31/11.
IC Kala, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Ickala. First Floor, No.9, Laleh St., Jomohri St., Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Iraj Najmi, No. 80/1, Fourth Floor, North Sindokht St., Dr. Fatemi Ave., Tehran, 14118, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Iran Air, Iran Air Building, Mehrabad Airport, P.O. Box 13185-775, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-Case review for licenses for the safety of civil aviation and the safe operation of aircraft; Presumption of Denial for all others | 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
Iran Compo Co., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Irancompo. No.38, East Hoveizeh St., North Sohrevardi St., Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Aerospace Force, a.k.a., the following ten aliases: —IRGC-ASF; —Aerospace Division of IRGC; —Aerospace Force of the Army of the Guardians of the Islamic Revolution; —AFAGIR; —Air Force, IRGC; —IRGC Aerospace Force; —IRGC Air Force; IRGCAF; —IRGCASF; Islamic Revolution Guards Corps Air Force; —Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps Air Force; and —Sepah Pasdaran Air Force. Damavand Tehran Highway, Tehran Province, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b) and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 6622, 2/1/23.
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Research and Self-Sufficiency Jihad Organization, a.k.a., the following 13 aliases: —IRGC SSJO; —Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Self-Sufficiency Jehad Organization; —IRGC Research and Self Sufficiency Jehad Organization; —Self-Sufficiency Jihad Organization; —IRGC's Arms and Military Equipment Self-Sufficiency Program; —IRGC Jihad Self-Sufficiency Organization; —Jihad Self-Sufficiency Organization of Islamic Revolution Iranian Revolutionary Guards; —Self Sufficiency Jihad Organization; —IRGC's Self-Sufficiency and Industrial Research Center; —IRGC's Self-Sufficiency and Industrial Research Centre; —IRGC Missile Research Center; —IRGC Self-Sufficiency Organization; and —IRGC's Research and Self-Sufficiency Organization. Tehran and Isfahan, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b) and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 6622, 2/1/23.
Javan Electronic Company, No.17, Ground Floor, Abbasian Passage, Jomohri St., Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Kalaye Electric Company, a.k.a. the following four aliases:—Kala Electric Company;—Kalia;—Kala Electric; and—Kola Electric Company. 33 Fifteenth (15th) Street, Seyed-Jamal-Eddin-Assad Abadi Avenue, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 72 FR 38008, 07/12/07.77 FR 24590, 4/25/12.
Kamran Daneshjou. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
Kish Airlines, Headquarters, No. 21 Ekbatan Main Blvd., P.O. Box 19395/4639, Tehran, 13938, Iran | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
Landa Ariya Electronic Co., a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Landa Ariya Electronic Co. Ltd.;—Landa Electronic; and—Landa Electronics. No. 2, 5th floor, Abbasian Bld., Jomhoori Ave., Tehran, Iran; and No. 2, 5th floor, Abbasian Bld., Republic Street, Tehran, Iran; and No. 48, Abbasian Bld, Republic Street, Tehran, Iran (see alternate addresses in China). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Mahdi Electronics, a.k.a. the following alias:—Mahdi Electronic Trading Co. Ltd. Ground Floor—No. 31 Alborz Alley, Enghelab St., Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 74001, 12/5/08.77 FR 24590, 4/25/12.
Mahdi Keivan Bahari, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Mehdi Keivan;—M. Aziz; and;—Aziz Bahari. Unit 3, 13th Floor, Negar Tower, Vansk Square, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Mahmood Akbari, a.k.a., the following alias:—John Wassermann. No. 34, Arash Blvd., Farid Afshar St., Zafar Ave., Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
Mahsa Keivan Bahari, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Katrina Smich;—Katrina Smitch; and—K.A. Smich. Unit 3, 13th Floor, Negar Tower, Vansk Square, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Maryan Jahanshahi, 34 Mansour St., Motahari-ValiAsr Street Junction, Tehran, Iran | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Mehdi Teranchi. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
Mehrdad Rueen Foomanie, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Frank Foomanie;—Mark Foomanie;—Mark Averin; and—Max Xian. No. 35 Abaas Abaad Street, Daryosh Street Andesheh 2 Street (Hamid Qods), Iran—Tehran; and Sohrivardi Shomali Street, Andesheh 2 Street, after Daryoush Crossroad, No. 35, Floor 5, No. 8, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.
Mesbah Energy Company (a.k.a. “MEC”), 77 Armaghan Gharbi Street, Valiasr Blve,Tehran, Iran | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.2 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 72 FR 38010, 7/12/07.
Mohamad Reza Rajabi, a.k.a. the following five aliases: —Dr. Alex Xu; —Dr. Ahmad Temi; —Ahmad A. Temijani; —Ahmadi Rajabi; and —Marzich Ghiami Tamijan. No. 4, Enghelab Boulevard, Qods City, Tehran Province, Iran; and No. 4, Enghelab BLV, Qods City, Tehran, Iran. (See alternate addresses under China). | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Mohammed Narjespour, 34 Mansour St., ValiAsr-Motahari Crossing, Tehran, Iran | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Mohsen Asraftaba, No. 2, 5th floor, Abbasian Bld., Jomhoori Ave., Tehran, Iran; and No. 2, 5th floor, Abbasian Bld., Republic Street, Tehran, Iran; and No. 48, Abbasian Bld, Republic Street, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Mojtaba Farhadi Ganjeh, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Morvarid Sanat Co. Ltd., Sohrivardi Shomah Street, Andesheh 2 Street, after Daryosh Crossroad, No. 35 Floor 5, No. 8, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.
Morvarid Shargh Co. Ltd., Sohrivardi Street No. 35, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.
Moslem Nasiri, 34 Mansour St., ValiAsr-Motahari Crossing, Tehran, Iran | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Mostafa Oveici, a.k.a., the following one alias: Mosi Oveici. Mehrabad Airport, Tehran, Iran, (See alternate address under Thailand) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
M.R. Ahmadi, P.O. Box 19575/199, Tehran, Iran | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Naser Golshekan, Ground Floor—No. 31, Alborz Alley, EnghelabSt, Tehran, Iran | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 74001, 12/5/08.
NBC Navegan Bar Co. Ltd., a.k.a. the following alias:—NBC Navegan Bar International Transport Co. Ltd. #135 Khorramshahr Ave., Tehran 1533864163; and 101, Kohrramshahr Ave., Tehran 1533864163. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54507, 9/22/08.76 FR 21628, 4/18/11.77 FR 24590, 4/25/12.
Neda Industrial Group, No. 10 and 12, 64th St. Jamalodin Asadabadi Avenue, Tehran, Iran | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Nedayeh Micron Electronics, No. 34 Mansour St., Tehran, Iran | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Niasan Century Industry, Unit 2, GF, No.:1, Marzban Name Alley, Mofateh St., Motahari Ave., 1588875333, Tehran, Iran | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Nilco Group, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Nilfam Khazar Co. Unit 6, No. 1, Mehr Alley, Gilan St., Boostan 2, Pasdaran Ave., Tehran, Iran (see alternate addresses under Belarus and Russia) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 48534, 9/26/18.
Oje Parvaz Mado Nafar Company, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Mado; —Owj Parvaz Mado Nafar Company LLC; and —Mado Company No. 1106, 11 Hemmat Corner, Hemmat Square, Hemmat Boulevard, Shokuhieh Industrial Town, Qom, Qom Province, 3718116354, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b) and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 6622, 2/1/23.
Pakgostar Company, Appt 501 & 502, Borje Sefid Bldg, Pasadaran Avenue, Tehran 1946963651, Iran | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 74001, 12/5/08.
Paravar Pars Company, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —Paravar Pars Aerospace Research and Engineering Services; —Paravar Pars Aerospace Research Institute; —Paravar Pars Engineering and Services Aerospace Research Company; —Paravar Pars; —ParavarPars; and —Pravarpars Engineering Research and Design Company 13 km of Shahid Babaei Highway, after Imam Hossein University, next to Telo Road, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b) and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 6622, 2/1/23.
Parto System Tehran, (a.k.a., Rayan Parto System Tehran and Rayane Parto System Tehran), Unit 7, Floor 4 No. 51 around Golestan Alley End of Shahaneghi Ave., Sheikh Bahaee Str., Molasadra, Tehran, Iran; and No. 83 Around of Shanr Tash Ave. After Cross of ABAS ABAD North Sohrevadi Str., Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 67062, 10/31/11.
Paya Electronics Complex, (a.k.a., Paya Complex), No 3 Mirza Kochak Ave. Jomhori Street, Tehran, Iran; and No. 5 Mirzakuchanhan Street Jomhori Ave., Tehran, Iran; and No. 5 Mirza Kochak Ave. Jomhori Street, Tehran, Iran; and No. 5, Near to Flower Shop Mirza Koochak-Khan Jangali St, 30-Tir Junction, Jomhori St., Tehran, Iran; and Unit 6, No. 37 Goharshad Alley After 30 Tir Jomhori Street, Tehran, Iran; and Forghani Passage, Before 30 Tir, After Havez, Jomhori Ave., Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 67062, 10/31/11.
Payam Nabavi, Unit 2, 2 Golriz Ave, Qaem Maqam Farahani Hafte-e Tir Sq, Tehran, Iran; and Unit 4, 157 South Mofatteh St., Hafte-Tir, Tehran, Iran. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Qods Aviation Industry, a.k.a., the following eight aliases: —Qods Aviation Industries; —Qoods Aviation Industries; —Qhods Aviation Industries; —Qods Aviation Industry; —Qods Air Industries; —Ghods Aviation Industries; —Qods Research Center; and —Qods Aeronautics Industries. Unit (or Suite) 207, Saleh Blvd, Tehran, Iran; and Unit 207, Tarajit Maydane Taymori (or Teimori) Square, Basiri Building, Tarasht, Tehran, Iran; and P.O. Box 15875-1834, Km 5 Karaj Special Road, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b) and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 6622, 2/1/23.
Rad Tavan Afza Company, 3rd Floor, No. 210, W. Fatemi, Tehran, Iran, P.O. Box 14185-387; and 1st Pars Bldg., Beg. Pars Alley, Betw Khosh & Behboudi St., Azadi Ave., Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54507, 9/22/08.77 FR 24590, 4/25/12.
Raht Aseman Co. Ltd., No. 1.2, Mosque Alley, Mohammadi St., North Bahar Ave., Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 74001, 12/5/08.77 FR 24590, 4/25/12.
Reza Hajigholamali, No. 34, Arash Blvd., Farid Afshar St., Zafar Ave., Tehran, Iran (See alternate addresses under U.A.E.). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
Reza Seifi, Unit #23, Eighth Floor, No. 193 West Sarve Boulevard Kaj Square, Saadat Abad, 19987-14434, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 37633, 6/28/11.
Reza Zahedi Pour, 5 Yaas St., Unit 4, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 74001, 12/5/08.77 FR 24590, 4/25/12.
Rouhollah Abdollahi, Sanaye Havapeymaei Blvd. Karaj Makhsous Road 13976-13511, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
S.M. Mirbagheri, Sanaye Havapeymaei Blvd. Karaj Makhsous Road 13976-13511, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Sabanican Company (a.k.a., Sabanican Pad Co.), Unit #23, Eighth Floor, No. 193 West Sarve Boulevard Kaj Square, Saadat Abad, 19987-14434, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 37633, 6/28/11.
Saeed Talebi, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Allen Talebi. No. 27, Zarif Nia, Pesyan Valley, Tehran, Iran; and No. 3, West Saeb Tabrizi Lane, North Sheikh Bahaee Street, Tehran, Iran. (See alternate addresses under Canada and U.A.E.). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Safir Electronics, Ground floor No. 31 Alborz Alley, EnghelabSt. Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 74001, 12/5/08.
Sahab Phase, 5 Yaas St, Unit 4 Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 74001, 12/5/08.
Sahand Airlines, Sahand Airport, Bonab/Sahand, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
Sanaye Electronic Arman Ertebat Nemad Company (SAEN CO.), 67, 1st Floor, No. 3, Ebn-E Sina St., Mr. ValiAsr Ave., W. of Beheshti, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Satco, No. 3, West Saeb Tabrizi Lane, North Sheikh Bahaee Street, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Sayyed Javad Ahmadi, Nuclear Science and Technology Research Institute, End of North Karegar Avenue, P.O. Box 1439951113, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Sayyed Mohammad Mehdi Hadavi. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
Sazgan Ertebat Co. Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Sazgan Ertebat Poya Co. Ltd. No. 40-Hoveizeh St. Sohrevardi St., Tehran, Iran; and P.O. Box 16315-194 Zip: 1559934314. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.
Seyed Mahdi Mousavi, BLK 6, No. 12 Beside Gilan Street, Rodstar Street, Under Hafez Bridge, Tehran, Iran; and No. 10-6th Floor Iranian Trade Center, Valiasr Square, Tehran, Iran (See alternate addresses under U.A.E.). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
Seyed Mousavi Trading, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Hitech Computer Peripherals; and—Hitech Corporation. BLK 6, No. 12 Beside Gilan Street, Rodstar Street, Under Hafez Bridge, Tehran, Iran; and No. 10-6th Floor Iranian Trade Center, Valiasr Square, Tehran, Iran (See alternate addresses under U.A.E.). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
Shahed Aviation Industries, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Shahed Aviation Industries Research Center; —Shahed Aviation; —Shahed Aviation Industries Research; —Shahed Aviation Industries Research Centre; and —SAIRC. Shahid Lavi Street, Sajad Street, Isfahan, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b) and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 6622, 2/1/23.
Shahid Bakeri Industrial Group, a.k.a. the following nine aliases:—SBIG;—Shahid Baheri Industries Group;—Shahid Bagheri Industries Group;—Shahid Bagheri Industrial Group;—MEHR Trading Company;—Department 140/14;—Mahtab Technical Engineering Company;—Composite Propellant Missile Industry; and—Sanaye Sokhte Morakab (SSM). Pasdaran Ave., Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 72 FR 38008, 7/12/07.77 FR 24590, 4/25/12.
Shahid Hemmat Industrial Group, a.k.a. the following six aliases:—SHIG;—Shahid Hemat Industrial Group;—Chahid Hemmat Industrial Group;—Shahid Hemmat Industrial Complex (SHIC);—Shahid Hemmat Industrial Factories (SHIF); and—Hemmat Missile Industries Factory. Damavand Tehran Highway, Tehran, Iran; Damavand Tehran Highway, Tehran, Iran; and Damavand Road 2, Abali Road, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 72 FR 38008, 7/12/07.77 FR 24590, 4/25/12.
Silk Road Trading Company Ltd., a.k.a. the following two aliases: —Silk Road Trading Co Ltd.; and —Silk Road. No. 4, Enghelab Boulevard, Qods City, Tehran Province, Iran; and No. 4, Enghelab BLV, Qods City, Tehran, Iran. (See alternate addresses under China). | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Simin Neda Industrial and Electrical Parts, a.k.a., the following alias:—TTSN No. 22, Second Floor, Amjad Bldg., Jomhoori Ave., Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54507, 9/22/08.77 FR 24590, 4/25/12.
Sina Biomedical Chemistry Company, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Shimi Tebe Sina; and—SBMC. Unit 2, 2 Golriz Ave, Qaem Maqam Farahani Hafte-e Tir Sq, Tehran, Iran; and Unit 4, 157 South Mofatteh St., Hafte-Tir, Tehran, Iran | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
SkyTech Electronic, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Sepehr Tejarat Trading Group. Unit 2, Floor 1, No.13, Yoghma Alley, Jomohri Junction, Tehran, Iran; and MCV5QGP District 11, Tehran Province, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Smart Mail Services, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Smart Mail Service LLC. Vanak Sq, Negar Tower, Fl 3, Tehran, Iran. (See alternate address under United Arab Emirates.) | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Tadbir Sanaat Sharif Technology Development Center (TSS), First Floor, No. 25 Shahid Siadat Boulevard, North Zanjan Street, Yadegar Emam Highway, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 36519, 6/28/10.
Tehran Pishro Trading Co., 227th Floor, No.4, Next to Jahangardi Club, Azadi St., Tehran, Iran. (See alternate addresses under China and the United Arab Emirates.) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Toos Electronics, 29, 1st Floor, Amjad Bldg., Jomhoori Ave., Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Ukraine Mediterranean Airlines, a.k.a., UM Airlines, UM Air, Building Negin Sai app. 105, Valiasr Str., Tehran, Iran. (See alternate addresses under Ukraine and Syria) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
Vizneh Trading Company, 34 Mansour St., Motahari and ValiAsr Junction, Tehran, Iran, 1595747764. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Zagros Airlines, Abadan Airport, Abadan, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
Zagros Electronic, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Tesla Hooshmand Sazan Company. No.15, Ground Floor, Abbasian Passage, After Hafez Bridge, Jomhouri St., Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
ZTE Parsian, No. 100, Africa Ave., Mirdamad Entersection, Tehran, Iran. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 12006, 3/8/16.
IRAQ | Abd Al Hakim Luqman Jasim Muhammad, Al Faysaliyah, Mosul, Iraq. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 57454, 8/23/16.
Ag Yildiz Insaat Gayrimenkul Tasimacilik Pazarlama lthalat Ihracat ve Ticaret Ltd. Sirketi, a.k.a. the following four aliases:—Ag Yildiz Cargo;—Ag Yildiz Gayrimenkul;—Yildiz Company; and—Yildiz Shipping Company. Irbil, Iraq; and Mosul, Iraq (See alternate addresses under Syria and Turkey). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 57454, 8/23/16.
Sekirin Tekstil Ithalat Ihracat le ve Dis Ticaret Limited Sirketi, a.k.a., the following seven aliases:—Sekirin Textiles Export Import Limited Company;—Al Shakirin International Transport Company;—Shakirin Company;—Shakrin Company;—Sekirin Ticaret;—Al Shakirin Company; and—Sekirin Company. Al Faysaliyah, Mosul, Iraq (See alternate addresses under Syria and Turkey). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 57454, 8/23/16.
IRELAND | Intellexa Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Intellexa Ltd. 3rd Floor, Ulysses House, Foley Street, Dublin 1, Dublin, Ireland, D01W2T2. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 46072, 7/19/23.
Mac Aviation Group, a.k.a. Mac Aviation Limited, Cloonmull House, Drumcliffe, County Sligo, Ireland. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 74 FR 35799, 7/21/09.
Mac Aviation Nigeria, Cloonmull House, Drumcliffe, County Sligo, Ireland. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 74 FR 35799, 7/21/09.
Sean Byrne, Cloonmull House, Drumcliffe, County Sligo, Ireland. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 74 FR 35799, 7/21/09.
Sean McGuinn, Cloonmull House, Drumcliffe, County Sligo, Ireland. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 74 FR 35799, 7/21/09.
Thomas McGuinn a.k.a. Tom McGuinn, Cloonmull House, Drumcliffe, County Sligo, Ireland. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 74 FR 35799, 7/21/09.
ISRAEL | A. Leib Ltd.; HA'Assif 19, Binyamina, Israel. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.
AVS (Armored Vehicle Spares), a.k.a., the following one alias:—Armored Vehicle Service. 42 Hamesilla Street, Binyamina, Israel. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR). | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.
Candiru, a.k.a., the following seven aliases:—Candiru Ltd.;—DF Associates Ltd.;—Grindavik Solutions Ltd.;—Taveta Ltd.;—Saito Tech Ltd.;—Greenwick Solutions; and—Tabatha Ltd. 21 Haarbaa, Tel Aviv-Yafo, Israel 6473921. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 60760, 11/4/21.
Eliyahu Cohen, a.k.a., the following six aliases:—Arie Cohen;—Eli Cohen;—Eliyahu Ari Cohen;—Eliyahu Arie Cohen;—Eric Cohen; and—Ari Kohan. Binyamina, Israel. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.
M&P Trading Inc., P.O. Box 161, Caesarea, Israel 3088903. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.
NSO Group, 22 Galgalei Haplada, Herzliya, Tel Aviv-Yafo, Israel 4672222. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 60760, 11/4/21.
Nuclear Research Center at Negev Dimona, Israel. | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case basis | 62 FR 35334, 6/30/97.
P.AD Ltd., 42 Hamesilla Street, Binyamina, Israel. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.
QPS Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Quality Parts and Spares; and—Quality Parts and Services. 5 Ner Halayla Street, Caesarea, Israel; and 42 Hamesilla Street, Railway Industrial Area, Binyamina, Israel. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.
RSP Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Rebuilt Spare Parts. HA'Assif 19, Binyamina, Israel 30550. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.
Toga Networks, 4 Haharash St., Hod Hasharon, Israel. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Wheels Incorporated, HA'Assif 43, Binyamina, Israel 30551 (See alternate address under Panama). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.
ITALY | Huawei Italia, Via Lorenteggio, 240, Tower A, 20147 Milan, Italy. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Milan Research Institute, Milan, Italy. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Zigma Aviation, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Zigma Aviation Services. Viasalettuol, No. 12 Venezia Mestre, Italy. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
JAMAICA | Huawei Technologies Jamaica Company Limited, Kingston, Jamaica. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
JAPAN | Corad Technology Japan K.K., 1-1 Tsunaskimakamicho, Kohoku-Ku, Yokohama 223-0055 Japan. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Huawei Technologies Japan K.K., Japan. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Kingsemi Japan K.K., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Kingsemi Kyoto K.K.; and —Kingsemi. 680-1, Omandokorocho, Sagaru, Bukkoji, Karasumadoori, Shimogyo-Ku Daihachi Hase Bldg. 9F-B Kyoto, Kyoto, 600-8413 Japan. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Yangtze Memory Technologies (Japan) Inc., a.k.a., the following one alias: —JYM Technology Co., Ltd. New Tokyo Building 2F, 3-3-1 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0005, Japan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 77508, 12/19/22.
JORDAN | Huawei Technologies Investment Co. Ltd., Amman, Jordan. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
The Jordanian Lebanese Company for Laboratory Instruments S.A.L., Shmesani, Bldg. No 16 ground floor, Amman, 63 Jordan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19.
KAZAKHSTAN | Abtronics, 21 Solodovnikova Street, Almaty 50046, Kazakhstan (See alternate address under Russia). | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 3580, 1/26/18.
All Global Trading Elektronik Dis Ticaret Ltd Sti, Auezova 14a, BC “Fertility” 15th floor, Almaty City, Almaly Region, 050026, Kazakhstan. (For alternate addresses, see Kyrgyzstan and Turkey.) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
APEX Kazakhstan, 126 Jarokova Str, Almaty, Kazakhstan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Elem Group, LLC, a.k.a. the following one alias: —Elem Group. 8 Nauryzbai Batyr Street Almaty, 050004, Kazakhstan; and 98 Panfilov St., Almaty, 050000, Kazakhstan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Huawei Technologies LLC Kazakhstan, 191 Zheltoksan St., 5th floor, 050013, Bostandyk, District of Almaty, Republic of Kazakhstan. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Serniya Engineering, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Sernia Engineering. 164 Islam Karimov Street, Offic 311, Almaty, 050007, Kazakhstan. (See alternate address under Russia). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Timofey Telegin, 21 Solodovnikova Street, Almaty 50046, Kazakhstan. (See alternate address under Russia) | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 3580, 1/26/18.
KENYA | Frontier Services Group Limited, Allianz Building, 96 Riverside Drive, 6th Floor, P.O. Box 54-00517, Nairobi, Kenya. (See alternate addresses under Laos, and United Arab Emirates.) | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
KYRGYZSTAN | All Global Trading Elektronik Dis Ticaret Ltd Sti, 140/57 Chui Street, Bishkek City, Kyrgyzstan. (For alternate addresses, see Kazakhstan and Turkey.) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Muller Markt LLC, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —Muller Market LLC; —Müller Market LLC; —Müller Markt LLC; —LLC Müller Markt; —Müller Markt Limited Liability Company; and —Limited Liability Company Müller Markt. 43 Fatyanova Street, Bishkek, 720005, Kyrgyzstan; and 95 Kalyk Akieva Street, 3rd Floor, Leninsky District, Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Profflab LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Profflab OSOO. Apartment 2, 179 Toktogul Street, Bishkek, 720001, Kyrgyzstan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Tro.Ya, LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Tro-Ya. Lower Lugovaya St. 217 Tokmok, Chui Region, 724201, Kyrgyzstan; and Jumabeka St. 105/1 Bishkek 720011, Kyrgyzstan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
LAOS | Frontier Services Group Limited, Asem Villa No.5 Had Don Chan Road, Beyngkhayong Village, Sisattanak District, Vientiane Capital, Laos P.D.R. (See alternate addresses under People's Republic of China, Kenya, and United Arab Emirates.) | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
LATVIA | Ecotherm-Cryo Limited, 31B Riga, Latvia 1004. (See alternate address under Belize). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
LEBANON | al Tawasul al Arabi Net Systems, Beirut, Lebanon. (See alternate addresses under U.A.E.). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 32445, 6/5/14.
EDO-ELEMED, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—EDO ELEMED; and—EDO/ELEMED. St. Nicolas Street, Bldg. #5—Ba'abda, Beirut, Lebanon; and Ashrafiyeh, St. Louis Street, Abou Jawdeh Bldg. 2 Floor, Beirut, Lebanon. (See alternate addresses under Syria) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19.85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
EKT Electronics, a.k.a. the following four aliases:—Katrangi Electronics;—Katrangi Trading;—Katranji Labs; and—Electronics Systems. 1st floor, Hujij Building, Korniche Street, P.O. Box 817 No. 3, Beirut, Lebanon; P.O. Box: 8173, Beirut, Lebanon; and #1 fl., Grand Hills Bldg., Said Khansa St., Jnah (BHV), Beirut, Lebanon. (See alternate addresses under Syria.) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54507,9/22/08.77 FR 24590, 4/25/12.
Elemed Liban, St. Nicolas Street, Bldg. #5—Ba'abda, Beirut, Lebanon. (See also addresses under Syria) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19.
Huawei Technologies Lebanon, Beirut, Lebanon. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Husayn Fa'ur, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Hussein Faour. Beirut Hadath, Morjan Bldg near Sfeir Bridge, Lebanon. (See alternate address under U.A.E.). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 32445, 6/5/14.
Karim Daadaa, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Karim Hamdi Mohd El Daadaa. Corniche El-Mazraa, Rihani Center, Arab Bank Bldg, 6th Floor, Office #1, Beirut, Lebanon; and Anwar Building, 9th Floor, Salim Salam Blvd & Strt Burj Abi Haidar, Beirut, Lebanon. (See alternate address under Canada). | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Micro Power Engineering Group, a.k.a., MPEG, Anwar Street, Abou Karam Building, 1st Floor, Jdeidet El Metn, Beirut, Lebanon. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 44261, 7/25/11.
Modern Agropharmaceuticals & Trade Establishment, Corniche El-Mazraa, Rihani Center Arab Bank Bldg 6th Floor, Office #1, Beirut, Lebanon; and Anwar Building, 9th Floor, Salim Salam Blvd & Strt Burj Abi Haidar, Beirut, Lebanon. (See alternate address under Canada). | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Mohammed Katranji, 1st floor, Hujij Building, Korniche Street, P.O. Box 817 No. 3, Beirut, Lebanon. (See alternate address under Syria) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Narinco Micro Sarl, Dedeyan Center, Dora Boulevard Street, Bauchrieh Metn. Lebanon. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 44261, 7/25/11.
New Intelcom, Manchieh St, Garden Place Blvd, Hariet Hreik, Beirut, Lebanon; and Al-Hadath, Gallery Semann, Behind KFC, Jordan Bldg, 1st Floor, Beirut, Lebanon. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 32445, 6/5/14.
Power S.A.L., Al-Hadath, Gallery Semann, Behind KFC, Jordan Bldg, 1st Floor, Beirut, Lebanon. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 32445, 6/5/14.
Rahal Corporation for Technology and Medical Supplies, St. Nicolas Street, Bldg. #5—Ba'abda, Beirut, Lebanon. (See also addresses under Syria) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19.
Rahal Establishment, St. Nicolas Street, Bldg. #5—Ba'abda, Beirut, Lebanon. (See also addresses under Syria) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19.
Serop Elmayan and Sons Lebanon, Ground Floor, Aramouni Building, Property Number 1731, Fleuve Street, Mar Mekhael Sector, Beirut, Lebanon. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 44261, 7/25/11.
Serpico Offshore Sarl, Ground Floor, Aramouni Building, Property Number 1731 Fleuve Street, Mar Mekhael Sector, Beirut, Lebanon. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 44261, 7/25/11.
Wave Tech, Riad El Sulh Square, Shaker & Oweini Bldg, 4th Floor, Beirut, Lebanon. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 32445, 6/5/14.
Zener Lebanon, Beirut Hadath, Morjan Bldg near Sfeir Bridge, Lebanon. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 32445, 6/5/14.
LITHUANIA | Sinno Electronics, Kirtimu G 41, Vilnius, Lithuania. (See alternate address under China). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of Denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22. 87 FR 57082, 9/16/22.
LUXEMBOURG | Maples SA, Boulevard Royal 25/B 2449, Luxembourg. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 80646, 12/28/15.
Spacety Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Changsha Tianyi Space Science and Technology Research Institute; —Spacety; and —Spacety Luxembourg S.A. 9, Avenue des Hauts-Fourneaux, L-4362 Esch-Sur-Alzette, Luxembourg. (See alternate address under China). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b), and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 12171, 2/27/23.
Volga Group, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Volga Group Investments, and—Volga Resources, and—Volga Resources Group. 3, rue de la Reine L-2418 Luxembourg. (See alternate address under Russia). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 24561, 5/1/14.
MADAGASCAR | Huawei Technologies Madagascar Sarl, Antananarivo, Madagascar. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
MALAYSIA | Ace Hub System, No. 15, Jalan PJS 11/16, Taman Bandar Sunway, 46150 Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Ahmad Rahzad, a.k.a., Saeb Karim, 27-06, Amcorp Bldg., Jalan 18, Persiaran Barat, Petaling Jaya, 46050 Selangor, Malaysia. (See alternate address under Iran) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Albin Technologies Sdn Bhd., M-3-19 Plaza Damas, Sri Hartamas, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 50480; and P.O. Box 4, Level 13A, Menara Park, Block D, Megan Ave. II, No 12, Jalan Yap Kwan Seng, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Alex Ramzi, Suite 33-01, Menara Keck Seng, 203 Jalan Bukit Bintang, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 55100. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 1701, 1/13/10.
Amir Ghasemi, Suite 33-01, Menara Keck Seng, 203 Jalan Bukit Bintang, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 55100. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 1701, 1/13/10.
Analytical Solutions, #GB (Ground Floor), Pearl Tower, O.G. Heights, Jalan Awan Cina, 58200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54508 9/22/0873 FR 74001, 12/5/08.
Ann Teck Tong, 97C, Jalan Kenari 23, Puchong Jaya, Puchong, Selangor, Malaysia Suite D23, Tkt. 2, Plaza Pekeliling, Jalan Tun Razak, Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah, Peresekkutuan, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Antcorp System, 5-02 Wisma Pantai, Jalan Wisma Pantai 12200 Butterworth, Penang, Malaysia; 27-G Lorong Kelasah 2, Tamen Kelasah 13700 Seberang Jaya, Penang, Malaysia; and No. 9 Jalan 3/4C Desa Melawati 53100 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54508. 9/22/08.74 FR 8184. 2/24/09.
Anvik Technologies Sdn. Bhd., a.k.a., the following eight aliases:—Anvik Technologies;—Cason Technologies,—Henan Electronics;—Hixton Technologies;—Hudson Technologies, Ltd.;—Hudson Engineering (Hong Kong) Ltd.;—Madison Engineering Ltd.; and—Montana Advanced Engineering. Level 36, Menara Citibank, 165 Jalan Ampang, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 50450; and Level 20, Menara Standard Chartered, 30 Jalan Sultan Ismail, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 50250. (See alternate addresses under China and Iran). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Austral Aero-Marine Corp. Sdn Bhd, 10A Jalan 2/137B, Resource Industrial Centre Off Jalan Kelang Lama 58000, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 36519, 6/28/10.
Austral Aviation Corp., 10A Jalan 2/137B, Resource Industrial Centre Off Jalan Kelang Lama 58000, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 36519, 6/28/10.
Babak Jafarpour, a.k.a., the following five aliases:—Bob Jefferson;—Peter Jay;—Sam Lee;—Samson Lee; and—David Lee. Level 36, Menara Citibank, 165 Jalan Ampang, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 50450; and Level 20, Menara Standard Chartered, 30 Jalan Sultan Ismail, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 50250; and Level 26, Tower 2, Etiqa Twins 11, Jalan Pinang, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 50450; and M-3-19 Plaza Damas, Sri Hartamas, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 50480. (See alternate addresses under China and Iran). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Brian Kaam, a.k.a., Kaam Chee Mun, No. 15, Jalan PJS 11/16, Taman Bandar Sunway, 46150 Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Donny Lee, 34 Sultan Ismael, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 50350. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
East Tech, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Eco Biochem Sdn Bhd, No. 15, Jalan PJS 11/16, Taman Bandar Sunway, 46150 Petaling Jaya, Selangor D.E., Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54508,9/22/08.77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
EEZ SDN, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Electronic Engineering Zone SDN BHD. 33-88 Menara Keck Seng, 203 Jalan Bukit Bintang, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; and A-17-8 Tower A, Menara Atlas, Plaza Pantai 5, Jalan 4/83A, off Jalan Pantai Baru, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; and B-3A-7 Empire Subang, Jalan SS16/1, Subang Jaya, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
Evertop Services Sdn Bhd, Suite 33-01, Menara Keck Seng, 203 Jalan Bukit Bintang, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 55100. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 1701, 1/13/10.
Festsco Marketing Sdn Bhd, 97C, Jalan Kenari 23, Puchong Jaya, Puchong, Selangor, Malaysia; and Suite D23, Tkt. 2, Plaza Pekeliling, Jalan Tun Razak, Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekkutuan, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54508,9/22/08.77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
HAT Logistics SDN BHD, Lot Fl-37, Block A, Klas Cargo Complex, Sepang, Sengalor, Malaysia; and No. 27A, Jalan PJS 10/24, Bandar Sri Subang, 46150 Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Integrated Scientific Microwave Technology, a.k.a., the following one alias:—ISM Tech. 1-11 1st floor, Jalan Padan Perdana 2, Dataran Pandan Prima, 55100, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. (see alternate address under China). | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
International Aerospace Asia, a.k.a. the following two aliases: —IAA; and —IntAero. Level 44, Tower 2, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. (See alternate addresses under Singapore, Thailand and United Kingdom.) | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Jimmy Tok, 10A Jalan 2/137B, Resource Industrial Centre Off Jalan Kelang Lama 58000, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 36519, 6/28/10.
John Tan, Menara City One Condominium, Jalan Munshi Abdullah, City Centre, 50100 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; and Level 5, Manara City One, Letter Box CP5-01, No. 3, Jalan Munshi Abdullah, 50100 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan, Malaysia; and Lot Fl-37, Block A, Freight Forwarders Building Klas Cargo Complex, KLIA, 64000 Sepang, Selangor, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Majid Kakavand, Suite 33-01, Menara Keck Seng, 203 Jalan Bukit Bintang, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 55100. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 1701, 1/13/10.
Majid Seif, a.k.a., Mark Ong and Matti Chong, 27-06 Amcorp Building, Jalan 18, Persiaran Barat 46050 Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Maxwell Prima-Ventures SDN BHD, No. 12-20, Level 12, Duple Office, Plaza Azalea, Persiaran Bandaraya, Seksyen 14, 40000 Shah Alam, Selangor, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
MKB Pacific Air SDN BHD, No. 214, 2nd Floor, Wisma MPL, Jalan Raja Chulan, 50200, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Mohamad Sadeghi, 33-88 Menara Keck Seng, 203 Jalan Bukit Bintang, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; and A-17-8 Tower A, Menara Atlas, Plaza Pantai 5, Jalan 4/83A, off Jalan Pantai Baru, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
Mohd Ansari, 5-02 Wisma Pantai, Jalan Wisma Pantai 12200 Butterworth, Penang, Malaysia; 27-G Lorong Kelasah 2, Tamen Kelasah 13700 Seberang Jaya, Penang Malaysia; and No. 9 Jalan 3/4C Desa Melawati 53100 Kuala Lumpur Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54508 9/22/08.73 FR 74001 12/5/08.74 FR 8184. 2/24/09.
Mohd Zamri bin Mazleh, No 55, Jalan USJ 11/4M UEP Subang Jaya 47620 Subang Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Mohsen Torabi, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Moha Torab. 2nd Floor, Jalan 9A, Berangan, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; and 33-88 Menara Keck Seng, 203 Jalan Bukit Bintang, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; and A-17-8 Tower A, Menara Atlas, Plaza Pantai 5, Jalan 4/83A, off Jalan Pantai Baru, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
Mok Chin Fan, a.k.a., Chong Chen Fah, 10A Jalan 2/137B, Resource Industrial Centre Off Jalan Kelang Lama 58000, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 36519, 6/28/10.
Montana Advanced Engineering Sdn Bhd., Level 26, Tower 2, Etiqa Twins 11, Jalan Pinang, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 50450; and Level 20, Menara Standard Chartered, 30 Jalan Sultan Ismail, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 50250; and P.O. Box 4, Level 13A, Menara Park, Block D, Megan Ave. II, No 12, Jalan Yap Kwan Seng, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Muhamad Fazil bin Khalid, 33-88 Menara Keck Seng, 203 Jalan Bukit Bintang, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; and A-17-8 Tower A, Menara Atlas, Plaza Pantai 5, Jalan 4/83A, off Jalan Pantai Baru, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; and No. 2 Jalan 29C, Selayang Baru, Batu Caves, Selangor, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
NBH Industries, No. 154, Persiaran Raja Muda, Klang Selangor, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 44824, 9/4/18. 83 FR 44824, 9/4/18. 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
Nexus Empire, a.k.a., Vast Solution 2706, Amcorp Bldg., Jalan Persiaran Barat, Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Nur Rochman Achmad, No. 12-20, Level 12, Duple Office, Plaza Azalea, Persiaran Bandaraya, Seksyen 14, 40000 Shah Alam, Selangor, Malaysia; and Lot 204 CSC Building, KLAS Cargo Complex, KLIA 64000 Sepang, Selangor Darul Ehsan Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
PNPI Group SDN BHD, Menara City One Condominium, Jalan Munshi Abdullah, City Centre, 50100 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; and Level 5, Manara City One, Letter Box CP5-01, No. 3, Jalan Munshi Abdullah, 50100 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan, Malaysia; and Lot Fl-37, Block A, Freight Forwarders Building Klas Cargo Complex, KLIA, 64000 Sepang, Selangor, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Quantum Aviation and Supply SDN BHD, No. 12-20, Level 12, Duple Office, Plaza Azalea, Persiaran Bandaraya, Seksyen 14, 40000 Shah Alam, Selangor, Malaysia; and Lot 204 CSC building, KLAS Cargo complex, KLIA 64000 Sepang, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Reka Grup Danismanlik ve Tic Ltd Sti, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Reka Global. 16 Persiaran Setia Dagang, Setia Alam, Seksyen U13, Alam Nusantara, 40170 Shah Alam, Selangor, Malaysia. (See alternate address under Turkey.) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Sam Johnson, Menara City One Condominium, Jalan Munshi Abdullah, City Centre, 50100 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; and Level 5, Manara City One, Letter Box CP5-01, No. 3, Jalan Munshi Abdullah, 50100 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan, Malaysia; and Lot Fl-37, Block A, Freight Forwarders Building Klas Cargo Complex, KLIA, 64000 Sepang, Selangor, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Sky Marine and Oil SDN BHD, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Sky Marine & Oil SDN BHD;—Sky Marine and Oil; and—Sky Marine & Oil. Lot 210, 2nd Floor CSC Building, Klas, Sepang, Selangor, Malaysia 64000; and 34 Sultan Ismael, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 50350; and Level 5, Manara City One, Letter Box CP5-01, No. 3, Jalan Munshi Abdullah, 50100 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Supra Tech Sdn Bhd, 33-3, IB Tower, Persiaran KLCC, Kuala Lumpur, 50450, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Syarikat Penghantaran TWW Sdn Bhd, Lot C-7, Block C Mas Advance Cargo Centre KLIA Cargo Village Southern Support Zone 64000, Sepang Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
Vast Solution Sdn Bhd., 27-06 Amcorp Building, Jalan 18, Persiaran Barat, 46050 Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
VTE Industrial Automation Sdn Bhd, 97C, Jalan Kenari 23, Puchong Jaya, Puchong, Selangor, Malaysia; and 45-02, Jalan Kenari 19A, Puchong Jaya, Puchong, Selangor, 47100 Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54508,9/22/08.76 FR 78146,12/16/11.77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
Zulkefli bin Yusuf, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Zulkefli Yusof. No. 12-20, Level 12, Duple Office, Plaza Azalea, Persiaran Bandaraya, Seksyen 14, 40000 Shah Alam, Selangor, Malaysia; and Lot 204 CSC building, KLAS Cargo complex, KLIA 64000 Sepang, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
MALTA | Djeco Group LP, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Djeco Group Holding LTD. Phoenix Business Centre, The Penthouse Old Railway Track, Santa Venera, Malta. (See alternate address under United Kingdom). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Feroz Ahmed Akbar, 116/8 San Juan St., Georges Road, St. Julians, STJ 3203, Malta. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
I JET GLOBAL DMCC, a.k.a. the following five aliases: —iJet; —iJet Aviation Services; —iJET Flight Support Services; —Trade Med Middle East; and —Trade Mid Middle East. 116/8, St. George's Road, St. Julians STJ3203, Malta. (See alternate addresses under Spain, Syria, and United Arab Emirates). | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Malberg Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Malberg LTD. C1, Depiro Point, Depiro Street, Sliema, SLM 2033 Malta; and Forrest Street St Julians STJ 2033MT-X, X STJ 20133 Malta; and Phoenix Business Centre, The Penthouse, Old Railway Track, Santa Venera, Malta; and 48 Triq Stella Maris Sliema Slm 1765 Mt, Malta. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Sparx Air Ltd., 116/8 San Juan St Georges Road, ST. Julians, STJ 3203, Malta. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
MEXICO | Huawei Cloud Mexico, Mexico City, Mexico. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei OpenLab Mexico City, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Huawei Mexico City OpenLab. Mexico City, Mexico. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Technologies De Mexico S.A., Avenida Santa Fé No. 440, Torre Century Plaza Piso 15, Colonia Santa Fe, Delegación Cuajimalpa de Morelos, C.P. 05348, Distrito Federal, CDMX, Mexico; and Laza Carso, Torre Falcón, Lago Zurich No. 245, Piso 18, Colonia Ampliacion Granda, Delegación Miguel Hidalgo, CDMX, Mexico. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
MOROCCO | Huawei Technologies Morocco, Immeuble High Tech, 4eme Etage, Plateaux N 11, 12 Et 13, Hay Riad, Rabat, Morocco. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
NETHERLANDS | All Industrial International, Knobbelswaansingel 19, 2496 LN, The Hague, Netherlands; and Breukelensestraat 44, 2574 RC, The Hague, Netherlands. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
China HEAD Aerospace Technology Co., a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —China HEAD; —China HEAD Technology Co; —HEAD Aerospace; —HEAD Aerospace Group; —HEAD Aerospace Netherlands; —HEAD France; and —HEAD Technology France. Kapteynstraat 1 2201 BB Noordwijk ZH, Netherlands. (See alternate address under China and France). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b), and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 12171, 2/27/23.
Hasa Nederland B.V., a.k.a., the following one alias: —European Trading Technology BV. Nieuwstraat 56F, 4524 EG Sluis, Netherlands. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Huawei Cloud Netherlands, Amsterdam, Netherlands. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Technologies Coöperatief U.A., Netherlands. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Kapil Raj Arora, Breukelensestraat 44, 2574 RC, The Hague, Netherlands; and Knobbelswaansingel 19, 2496 LN, The Hague, Netherlands. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
Nicolas Kaiga, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Nicholas Kaiga 32 Disneystrook, 2726CT Zoetemeer, Netherlands. (See alternate addresses under Belgium and United Kingdom) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
Suzhou Keda Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a, the following alias:—Kedacom. Groenhof 344, Amstelveen, 1186GK, The Netherlands. (See alternate addresses under China, Pakistan, Singapore, South Korea, and Turkey). | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
NEW ZEALAND | Huawei Technologies (New Zealand) Company Limited, 80 Queen Street, Auckland Central, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
NICARAGUA | Nicaraguan National Police (NNP), 4PJP+GFP, Managua 11132, Nicaragua. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 18985, 3/30/23.
NORTH MACEDONIA | Cytrox AD, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Sytrox. October 20, no. 1/1-1 Skopje, Karpos, North Macedonia; and Metropolitan Theodosij Gologanov 44, Skopje, Karpos, North Macedonia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 46072, 7/19/23.
NORWAY | Gunther Migeotte, Titangata 1, N-1630 Gamle, Fredrikstad, Norway; and H. Evjes vei 8A, Gressvik, Norway; and Holsneset 19, 6030 Langevag, Norway; and Titangata 1, 1630 Fredrikstad, Norway. (See alternate address under South Africa) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 36519, 6/28/10.
Icarus Design AS, Titangata 1 N-1630 Gamle, Fredrikstad, Norway. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 36519, 6/28/10.
OMAN | Airborne Logistics LLC, C.R. No 1/79103/6, 112 Ruwi, Sultanate of Oman. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Hejaif Alhadeetha Trading Company, P.O. Box 997 PC512, Oman. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Huawei Tech Investment Oman LLC, Muscat, Oman. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
International Smart Digital Interface Company (ISDIC), a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Digital Interface Company Limited; and —Int'l Smart Digital. 8730 Way, Block 387, Al Ma'abilah South, Muscat, Oman; and P.O. Box 176 6959 Way, Block 224, Al Nebras St., Al Ma'abilah, Muscat, Oman. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
Moaz Ahmed Mohammed al-Haifi, 8730 Way, Block 387, Al Ma'abilah South, Muscat, Oman. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
PAKISTAN | Abdul Qader Khan Research Laboratories (AQKRL), a.k.a., the following seven aliases:—Abdul Qadeer Khan Research Laboratories;—Dr. A.Q. Khan Research Laboratories;—Engineering Research Laboratories (ERL);—Institute of Industrial Control Systems (IICS);—Kahuta Nuclear Facility;—Kahuta Research Facility; and—Khan Research Laboratories (KRL). Dhoke Nusah, Dakhli Gangal, Near Chatri Chowk, P.O. Box 1398, Rawalpindi 46000, Pakistan; and P.O. Box 852, Rawalpindi, Pakistan; and P.O. Box 502, Kahuta, Pakistan; and 24 Mauve Area G 9/1, GPO Box 2891, Islamabad. | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case for all items listed on the CCL. Presumption of approval for EAR99 items. | 63 FR 64322, 11/19/98.65 FR 14444, 3/17/00.66 FR 50090, 10/1/01.77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
Abdul Razaq Asim, Unit 6, 1/F, Munawar Centre, Lahore, Pakistan; and 1/F, Sh. Rehmat Ullah Market, 16 Hall Road, Lahore, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.2(d), and 744.3(d) of the EAR | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Abdul Satar Ghoura, 127-128, Times Center, Saddar Road, Peshawar, Pakistan; and House Number 32, F-2, Khusal Khan Khattak Road, University Town, Peshawar, Pakistan. (See alternate addresses under Afghanistan). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 71869, 11/21/11.
Add-On Technology, Unit 6, 1/F, Munawar Centre, Lahore, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.2(d) and 744.3(d) of the EAR | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Advance Multicom, F-1, 1st Floor, Rizwan Arcade, 109-C Adamjee Road, Saddar, Rawalpindi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
Advanced Engineering Research Organization (AERO), a.k.a., the following one alias:—Integrated Solutions. Lub Thatoo Hazara Road, The Taxila District, Rawalpindi, Pakistan; and 53/2 26th Street, near Badara Commercial Area Phase 5 Extension, DHA Karachi, Pakistan; and House No. 334, Street No. 102, Sector I-8/4, near Pakeeza Market, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 56003, 9/18/14. 83 FR 3580, 1/26/18.
Affiliated Supply and Consultancy Services, Office 208, R.A. Bazar, Rawalpindi, Pakistan; and Office No. 210-A, R.A. Bazar, Rawalpindi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Affiliates International, 9 Timber Pond, Keamari P.O. Box 13139, Karachi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.3(d) of the EAR | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Ahad International, Suite #5-6, 2nd Floor, Empress Tower, Empress Road, Lahore-54000, Pakistan; and 11-12-13, 2nd Floor, Nomro Center, Badami Bagh, Lahore, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 90714, 12/15/16.
AHD International, House 9, Building 9, Business Bay, Phase VII, Bahria Town, Rawalpindi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Air Weapons Complex (AWC), AWC: E-5, Officers Colony, Wah Cantt, Punjab, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 90714, 12/15/16.
Akhtar & Munir, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Aimtech Trading Co. Hussain Plaza 60-B No. 3, Adamjee Road, Punjab 46000, Pakistan; and Office No. 333, 3rd Floor, Rania Mall, Band Road, Rawalpindi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18. 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
Akhtar and Sons Private Limited, 10th Floor Emerald Tower, Main Clifton Road, Karachi, Pakistan, 74000. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.3(d) of this part | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Al-Qertas, 794 Park Lane, Chaklala Scheme-III, Rawalpindi, Pakistan. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Al Technique Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. (ATCOP), 4th Floor, Dodhy Plaza, 52 Jinnah Avenue, P.O. Box 1878, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case for all items listed on the CCL. Presumption of approval for EAR99 items. | 63 FR 64322, 11/19/98.65 FR 14444, 3/17/00.66 FR 50090, 10/1/01.77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
Allied Business Concerns (Pvt) Ltd., Office No. 3, 1st Floor, RTA Plaza, G-15 Markaz, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Allied Trading Co., a.k.a., the following alias:—UCB Arcade. 2, Wazir Mansion, main Aiwan-e-tijarat Road, Boulton Market, Karachi-74000, Karachi, Pakistan (See alternate address under UCB Arcade in Uganda). | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case for all items listed on the CCL. Presumption of approval for EAR99 items. | 63 FR 64322, 11/19/98.65 FR 14444, 3/17/00.66 FR 50090 10/1/01.77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
Allied Trading Co | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case for all items listed on the CCL. Presumption of approval for EAR99 items | 63 FR 64322, 11/19/98.65 FR 14444, 3/17/00.66 FR 50092, 10/1/01.
Ansar Mahmood, Suite No. 2, 4th Fl., Imtiaz Center, Main Market Gulberg, Lahore, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
ANZ Importers and Exporters, Islamabad. | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case for all items listed on the CCL. Presumption of approval for EAR99 items | 63 FR 64322, 11/19/98.65 FR 14444, 3/17/00.66 FR 50092, 10/1/01.
Ariston Trade Links, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Ariston. Number 4, Block 19, Allahdad Plaza, Markaz G-8, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Asay Trade & Supplies, 6, Nafees Market, A-87 Road, Rawalpindi, Pakistan. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Asia Pacific Trade Hub, a.k.a., the following one alias: —M/S Asia Pacific Trade Hub PVT. LTD. No. 813, 8th Floor, Al-Hafeez Heights, Ghalib Road, Gulber-III, Lahore, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
Azad Motors Property Choice, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Peshawar Master Azad Motors;—Peshawar Motors Complex;—Karakoram Azad Motors; and—Azad Cars. Main GT Road, Hajji Camp, Peshawar, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 8527, 2/18/15.
Azam Electronics, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Mohammad Azam Electronics, and—Akram Dish TV Satellite Center, Chaman, Killa, Abdullah District, Baluchistan Province, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 71098, 11/29/12.
Blue Chip International, House No. 19 Central Avenue, Fazaia Housing, Rawalpindi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Britlite Engineering Company, 12-C, First Floor, Seher Lane Number 9, Phase 7, D.H.A., Karachi, 75500, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Broad Engineering (Pakistan), House 130, Street No. 109, G-11/3, Islamabad, Pakistan. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Busan International, No. 2 2nd Floor Plaza 6, Upper Banl Al-Falah, DHA2, Commercial Sector E, Jinnah Boulevard, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Business Empire International, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Drillage Trading FZE LLC. H-9, Block-9, Sector-F, Business Bay, DHA-1, Islamabad, Pakistan; and No. 13, Second Floor, Rahmat Centre, Islamabad, 44000. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Chemtech International (Private) Limited, B-35, Block-15, Gulsha-e-Iqbal, Karachi, Pakistan. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 87 FR 8182, 2/14/22.
Combine Communications, Suite No. 2, 4th Fl., Imtiaz Center, Main Market, Gulberg, Lahore, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
Creative Dynamics Engineering, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Creative Dynamics. 66/1-M Block 6, PECHS, Karachi, Sindh 75400, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 24245, 5/26/17.
Defense Science and Technology Organization (DESTO), a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Defense Science and Technology Center; and—Chaklala Defense Science and Technology Organization. 182 Sir Syed Road, Chaklala Cantt, Rawalpindi 46200, Pakistan; and Headquarters, Chakklala Cantt, Rawalpindi, 46200, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case for all items listed on the CCL. Presumption of approval for EAR99 items. | 63 FR 64322, 11/19/98.65 FR 14444, 3/17/00.66 FR 50090, 10/1/01.77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
Dynamic Engineering Corporation, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —DEC; —Diagnostic Engineering Corporation; and —Scientific Engineering Corporation. Unit No. 312, Al-Amin Tower, NIPA Chowrangi, Main University Road, Karachi, 74000, Pakistan; and E2, Block 10, Chase Centre, Karachi, Pakistan; and 11, 2nd Floor, Jamal Plaza F-10, Islamabad, Pakistan; and Q-27, Block 16/A, Karachi, 74000, Pakistan; and P.O. Box #18781, Q-27, Block 16/A, Karachi, 74000, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 87 FR 75174, 12/8/22.
Dynamic Engineers, 1/F, Sh. Rehmat Ullah Market, 16 Hall Road, Lahore, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.2(d) and 744.3(d) of the EAR | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Emerging Future Solutions Private Limited, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Emerging Future Solutions; —Emerging Future Solutions (Pvt) Ltd Pakistan; —Emerging Future Solutions Pvt Ltd.; and —Emerging Future Solutions Limited. Office No. 46-A, Street No. 5, Chaklala Scheme-III, Rawalpindi, 46000, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 561, 1/6/25.
EnerQuip Private, Ltd., Suite 2, 2nd Floor, Nasim Arcade, 1-9, Markaz, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.2(d), and 744.3(d) of the EAR | 87 FR 75174, 12/8/22.
Engineering and Commercial Services (ECS), 204, 2nd Floor, Capital Business Center, F-10 Markaz, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18.
Engineering Aura, Suite No. 28, Al-Behbood Plaza, 2nd Floor, The Mall, Wah, Punjab, Rawalpindi, 47040 Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
Engineering Equipment (Private) Limited, 26-D Kashmir Plaza, Jinnah Avenue, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19.
Engineering Materials and Equipment Co., a.k.a., the following one alias: —EMEC, Suite 7, Floor 6, Shaheen Complex, Egerton Road, Lahore 54010, Pakistan. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 87 FR 8182, 2/14/22.
Engineering Solutions Pvt. Ltd., 726, G-11/2. Ibne-Sina Road, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 90714, 12/15/16.
Fabcon International, 359 G-4, Johar Town, Lahore, Pakistan; and 227 Sunder Industrial Estate, Sunder-Raiwind Road, Lahore, Pakistan and MZ-9 Central Plaza, Barkat Market, Lahore, Pakistan and MZ-9, Central Plaza Barket Market, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19.
FACO Trading, 204, Bank & Business Centre Near Duty Free Shop off Shahrah-e-Faisal, Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 24245, 5/26/17.
Farzad Fazil Karim, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Ahmad Farzad. E3 Gul market Street 8, Hayatabad, Pakistan; and 122, First floor, Gul Haji Plaza, Peshawar, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 71869, 11/21/11.
Fazal Rahim Farid, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Fazel Rahim Farid;—Farid; and—Engineer Idris. 122, First Floor, Gul Haji Plaza, Peshawar, Pakistan; and House Number 32, F-2, Khusal Khan Khattak Road, University Town, Peshawar, Pakistan. (See alternate addresses under Afghanistan). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 71869, 11/21/11.
Future Systems Pvt. Ltd., 10 Main Double Road F11/3, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 56003, 9/18/14.
Genesis Technical Consultancy Services, Office Number 12, 4th Floor, Khyber Plaza, Blue Area, Islamabad, Pakistan and Flat No.01, 3rd Floor, Khyber Plaza Plot No.96, Blue Area, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
Geo Research, 136-B Faisal Town, Lahore, Pakistan; and 102-G Block Model Town, Lahore, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
Global Tech Engineers, Office Number 1, 1st Floor, Al Mairaj Center Street Number 1, Sector G-11/1, Islamabad, Pakistan. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Global Traders, 72 Industrial Area, Peshawar Road, Rawalpindi, Pakistan; and 4th Floor, Imperial Court, Dr. Ziauddin Ahmed Road, Karachi, Pakistan; and No. 28, Sheesh Mehal Market, Rawalpindi, Pakistan; and Shop No. 5, 1st Floor Pak Market, Lahore, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Hakim Noor, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Hakim Nur. Sarafa Shop #10, Noor Muhammad Market, Miram Shaw, Pakistan; and Mir Nasir Plaza, Sikandar Pura, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 8527, 2/18/15.
Hakim Nur Sarafa, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Noor Muhammad Market; and—Haji Hakim Noor Saraf. Sarafa Shop #10, Noor Muhammad Market, Miram Shaw, Pakistan; and Market Shop Number 10, Sarafa Bazar Miram Shaw, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 8527, 2/18/15.
Haris M. Fazal a.k.a. the following one alias: —Chaudhary Haris. Suite No. 2, 4th Fl., Imtiaz Center, Main Market Gulberg, Lahore, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
Hassan Scientific Corporation, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Hasan Scientific Corporation. 50 Akbari Road, New Anarkali, Lahore, Pakistan. | All Items Subject to the EAR | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 86 FR 29193, 6/1/21.
High Technologies, Ltd. (HTL), a.k.a., the following alias:—High Technology, Ltd. Islamabad. | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case for all items listed on the CCL. Presumption of approval for EAR99 items. | 63 FR 64322, 11/19/98.65 FR 14444, 3/17/00.66 FR 50090, 10/1/01.77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
Huawei Technologies Pakistan (Private) Limited, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Iman Group, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Pana Communication Inc. Plot No. 227, St. No. 7, Sector I-9/2, Industrial Area, Near Dry Port, Islamabad, Pakistan; and 70-East A.A. Plaza, Mezz. Floor Blue Area, Islamabad 44000, Capital, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 24245, 5/26/17.82 FR 44516, 9/25/17.
IMCO Technology and Services, a.k.a., including the following alias:—IMCO. No. 9, 2nd Floor, Royal Inn Plaza, Kohistan Road, F-8 Mar kaz, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Imminent Engineering Co., Ltd., Office No 35, Third Floor, Farhan Arcade, G-11 Markaz, Islamabad, 44000, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
IMPEX Trade & Services, 455/A Adamjee Road, Saddar, Rawalpuindi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 21236, 5/14/19.
Indentech International, Plot Number C-4, 1st Floor, P&T Society, Sector 31/D, Korangi, Karachi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Indus Tooling Solution, Suite Number 406, 4th Floor, Ibrahim Trade Tower, Plot Number 1, Block Number 6, Shahrah-e-Faisal, Karachi, Pakistan; and Suite Number 20, F-Block, Marghazar Colony, Multan Road, Lahore, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
Industrial Process Automation, No. 12, 11 Nishter Road, Lahore, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Innovative Equipment (Private) Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Innovative Equipment. No. 5, Tulsa Road, Lalazar, Rawalpindi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
Inspectech, Office Number 947, Block C, Faisal Town, Lahore, 54000, Pakistan. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 87 FR 8182, 2/14/22.
Interscan, Sattar Villa B, 32/1-C-1 Block-6, P.E.C.H.S., Karachi 75400i, Sindh, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 24245, 5/26/17.82 FR 44516, 9/25/17.
IntraLink Incorporated, 103 Dossal Arcade, 47 Jinnah Avenue, Blue Area, Islamabad, 44000, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Iqbal Enterprises, 14 Nishter Road, Lahore, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Irum Mehboob Raja, Pakistan Institute of Nuclear Science and Technology (PINSTECH), Nilore, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case for all items listed on the CCL. Presumption of approval for EAR99 items | 79 FR 56003, 9/18/14.
Jade Machinery Pvt. Ltd., 109-A, St # 4 Cavalry Ground, Lahore, Punjab 54000, Pakistan. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Jalaluddin Haqqani, a.k.a., the following seven aliases:—General Jalaluddin;—Haqqani Sahib;—Maulama Jalaluddin;—Maulawi Haqqani;—Molvi Sahib;—Mulawi Jalaluddin; and—Mullah Jalaluddin. Miram Shah, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 25055,4/27/12.
Jim Corporation, 11 Nishter Road, Lahore, Pakistan; and No. 521, Executive Office, Plot No. 23, Hilal Road, F-11/1, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Jiuding Refrigeration & Air-conditioning Equipment Co (Pvt) Ltd., 107 Sughra Tower, F-11 Markaz Islamabad, Pakistan. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
K-SOFT Enterprises, Office No. 10, First Floor, Al-Hafeez Tower, MM Alam Road, Gulberg, Lahore, Pakistan. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Kepler Corporation, Office No. 13, 2nd Floor, Jannat Arcade, G-11 Markaz, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
Khalil Zadran, a.k.a., the following eight aliases:—Samar Gul Khalil;—Khalil Samar Gul;—Samer Khalil;—Samer Gul Khalil;—Khlil Khalil;—Kalil Khalil;—Khalil Khualil; and—Haji Khalil. House 14, Street 13, Sector F-7/2, Islamabad, Pakistan; and House 20-B, Main College Road, Sector F-7/2, Islamabad, Pakistan (See alternate address in Afghanistan). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 25057, 4/27/12.
Khalil Zadran Company, a.k.a., the following alias:—Khalil Construction. Pakistan (See alternate address in Afghanistan). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 25057, 4/27/12.
KK International Traders (KKIT), House No. 19 Central Avenue, Fazaia Housing, Rawalpindi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
KMA International Import and Export Co., Sector I-8/4, House No. 460, Street No. 105, Islamabad 44000, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 24245, 5/26/17.
Konsult Tek (Pvt) Ltd, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Konsulttek. No. 33, Second Floor, Rose-1 Plaza, I-8 Markaz, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
KTK Engineering (PVT) LTD, 29-M, Civic Centre, Model Town Ext., Lahore, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Kurshid Ghoura, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Kurshed Ghoura; and—Kursheed Ghoura. 127-128, Times Center, Saddar Road, Peshawar, Pakistan; and House Number 32, F-2, Khusal Khan Khattak Road, University Town, Peshawar, Pakistan. (See alternate addresses under Afghanistan). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 71869, 11/21/11.
Lapcom Computer Stores, 122, First Floor, Gul Haji Plaza, Peshawar, Pakistan. (See alternate address under Afghanistan). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 71869, 11/21/11.
Lastech Associates, Islamabad. | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case for all items listed on the CCL. Presumption of approval for EAR99 items | 63 FR 64322, 11/19/98.65 FR 14444, 3/17/00.66 FR 50092, 10/1/01.
Link Lines (Pvt.) Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Link Lines. 1st Floor, Flat B, 11 Main Gulberg, Ghaus-Ul-Azam Road, Lahore, Pakistan; and VIP Square Plaza, 1st Floor, Office No. 3, 1-8 Markaz, Islamabad, Pakistan; and 1st Floor, 3-Sultana Arcade, Gulberg III, Lahore, Pakistan; and 17-Chaman Chambers, Nishter Road, Lahore, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
Linkers Automation (Pvt) Ltd., Office No. 10, 2nd Floor, Tarnol Centre, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Longford Engineering (Pvt) Ltd., 21-Km, Off Ferozepur Road, Green Cap Housing Scheme, Lahore, 8200688, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
LT Engineering and Trade Services (Pvt) Ltd. (LTE), Lub Thatoo, Abbotabad Road, Hasan Abdal, Pakistan; and 30 Nazimud din Road, F-10/4, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 56003, 9/18/14.
Machinery Master Enterprises Ltd. (MME), Islamabad. | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case for all items listed on the CCL. Presumption of approval for EAR99 items | 63 FR 64322, 11/19/98.65 FR 14444, 3/17/00.66 FR 50090, 10/1/01.77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
Maira Trade International, No. 1 Rahman Street, Office No. 15, Nishter Road, Lahore; and No. 1 Rahman Street, Office No. 15, Brandeth Road, Lahore; and No. 521, Executive Office, Plot No. 23, Hilal Road, F-11/1, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Makkays Hi-Tech Systems, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Zaib Electronics. Block 14 Civic Centre, G-6 Markaz, Islamabad, Pakistan; and Kulsum Plaza, 42 Jinnah Avenue, Islamabad, Pakistan; and Basement Khyber Plaza, Barma Town, near Barma Bridge, Lehtrar Road, Islamabad, Pakistan; and House No. 675, Street No. 19, G-9/3, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 24245, 5/26/17.82 FR 44516, 9/25/17.
Mansoor Ahmed Malik, 78-A, The Mall, Saddar, Punjab, Rawalpindi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
Maple Engineering Pvt. Ltd. Consultants, Importers and Exporters, Islamabad. | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case for all items listed on the CCL. Presumption of approval for EAR99 items | 63 FR 64322, 11/19/98.65 FR 14444, 3/17/00.66 FR 50090, 10/1/01.77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
Marine Systems Pvt. Ltd., 2nd Floor, Kashmir Plaza, Blue Area, G-6/F-6 Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18.
Maritime Technology Complex (MTC), MTC: Plot 94, Karachi, Pakistan; and MTC: System Division, PN Dockyard, Karachi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 90714, 12/15/16.
Marriala Consultants, 37-R, St-1, Phase-2, DHA, Lahore-54792, Punjab, Pakistan; and Main Bedian Rd, Ahmed Colony, Near Heir, Lahore-54792, Punjab, Pakistan; and 47-G, Phase-1 Commercial Area, DHA, Lahore-54792, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
Mecatech (Private) Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Mecatech. 402, 4th Floor, Chena Centre, Plot #104-E, Jinnah Avenue, Blue Area, Islamabad, Pakistan. | All Items Subject to the EAR | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 86 FR 29193, 6/1/21.
Metal Paint Products (Pvt) Ltd, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —ERDC Metal Paint Products (Pvt) Ltd; and —MPPL. No. 158, Street 9, I-10/3, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
Micado, 40-C, Block-6, P.E.C.H.S., Shahrah-e-Faisal, Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 24245, 5/26/17.82 FR 44516, 9/25/17.
Middle East Automation & Controls Services, a.k.a., the following one alias: —MACS; and—MEACS. 274-A, Canal View Housing Society, Lahore, Pakistan. | All Items Subject to the EAR | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 86 FR 29193, 6/1/21.
Mirza and Co., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Mirza. Office #343 3rd floor, Landmark Plaza 5⁄6 Jail Road, Lahore, Pakistan. | All Items Subject to the EAR | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 86 FR 29193, 6/1/21.
Mohammad Azam, a.k.a,—Mohammad Akram, Chaman, Killa, Abdullah District, Baluchistan Province, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 71098, 11/29/12.
MSN International, Office No. 32/37, 1st Floor, Behind NBP, Aslam Market, Wah Cantt, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 24245, 5/26/17.
Muhammad Ashraf, Office No. 11, 1st., Floor MICCOP Center, 1-Mozang Road, Lahore-54000, Pakistan; and 699 Khayaban-e-Suhrwardy, Abpara Market, Islamabad 44000 Pakistan. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Muhammad Farrukh, Office No. 11, 1st., Floor MICCOP Center, 1-Mozang Road, Lahore-54000, Pakistan. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Muhammad Halim Ghoura, 127-128, Times Center, Saddar Road, Peshawar, Pakistan, and House Number 32, F-2, Khusal Khan Khattak Road, University Town, Peshawar, Pakistan. (See alternate addresses under Afghanistan). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 71869, 11/21/11.
Muhandis Corporation, No. 283, Kahuta Triangle Industrial Area, Islamabad 44000 Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19.
NA Enterprises, Behind Imperio Mall, Wah Cantt, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Nanjing Jiuding Refrigeration & Air-conditioning Equipment Co., Ltd., 107 Sughra Tower, F-11 Markaz Islamabad Pakistan. (See alternate address under China). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.2(d) and 744.3(d) | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
NAR Technologies General Trading LLC, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —NAR Technologies; and —Nartechnologies. Plot. 33 Islamabad City Center, Services Housing Society E-11/2, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.2(d), and 744.3(d) of the EAR | 87 FR 75174, 12/8/22.
National Engineering and Scientific Commission (NESCOM), NESCOM Head Quarter, Plot #94, Sector H-11/4, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 90714, 12/15/16.
National Engineering Service Trading and Consultancy Company, 3rd Floor, Suite 01, Khyber Plaza, Fazul-ul-Haq Road, Blue Area Islamabad, Pakistan 46000. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
Nazir and Sons International, 2nd Floor, Pracha Plaza, Near Municipal Committee Office Road, Taxila, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 56003, 9/18/14.
New Auto Engineering (NAE), NAE: 72, Industrial Area, Peshawar Road, Rawalpindi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 90714, 12/15/16.
Ologh Beg International Forwarders Ltd., 127-128, Times Center, Saddar Road, Peshawar, Pakistan; and House Number 32, F-2, Khusal Khan Khattak Road, University Town, Peshawar, Pakistan. (See alternate address under Afghanistan). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 71869, 11/21/11.
Orient Importers and Exporters, Islamabad. | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case for all items listed on the CCL. Presumption of approval for EAR99 items | 63 FR 64322, 11/19/98.65 FR 14444, 3/17/00.66 FR 50092, 10/1/01.
Oriental Engineers, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Oriental Engineers Pvt. Ltd.;—Oriental Engineers Services;—Advance Technologies; and—Advanced Technologies. 11-B Main Gulberg, Lahore, Pakistan; and 1st Floor, Flat B, 11 Main Gulberg, Ghaus-Ul-Azam Road, Lahore, Pakistan; and 14 Nishter Road, Lahore, Pakistan; and LG-7 Eden Heights 3-A and 6-A, Main Jail Road, Gulberg, Lahore, Pakistan; and VIP Square Plaza, 1st Floor, Office No. 3, I-8 Markez, Islamabad, Pakistan; and 199-E, Officers Colony, Cavalry Ground, Lahore, Cantt, Pakistan; and Office 7, Lower Ground Floor, Eden Heights, Plaza, Jail Road, Gulberg, Lahore 54600, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 24245, 5/26/17.85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
Orion Eleven Pvt. Ltd., Street 11 Valley Road, Westridge Rawalpindi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 56003, 9/18/14.
Otto Manufacturing, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Otto Cranes; —Otto Materials; —OTTO; and —OTTO Group. 12-Km Raiwind Road, Shahansha Town, Lahore, Pakistan; and Office No, 305, 3rd Floor, Marine Faisal, Plot No. 10-A Block 6, PECHS Society, Nursery Main, Shahrah-e-Faisal, Karachi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission (PAEC), a.k.a., the following one alias:—Power Plant Workshops, P.O. Box 1114, Islamabad; and the following four subordinate entities:—National Development Complex (NDC), a.k.a., the following two aliases:—National Development Centre; and—National Defense Complex. Fateh Jang, Punjab, Rawalpindi, Pakistan; and P.O. Box 2216, Islamabad, Pakistan;—Pakistan Institute for Nuclear Science and Technology (PINSTECH), Nilore, Islamabad;—Nuclear reactors (including power plants), fuel reprocessing and enrichment facilities, all uranium processing, conversion and enrichment facilities, heavy water production facilities and any collocated ammonia plants; and—National Institute of Lasers and Optronics (NILOP), a.k.a., the following one alias:—National Institute of Lasers. Lethrar Road, Islamabad, 45650, Pakistan; and Lethrar Road, Nilore, 45650, Islamabad, Pakistan; and Hetrat Road, Nilore, 45650, Islamabad, Pakistan; andHouse #453 St., #16 Sector, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case for all items listed on the CCL. Presumption of approval for EAR99 items | 63 FR 64322, 11/19/98. 65 FR 14444, 3/17/00. 66 FR 50090, 10/1/01. 77 FR 58006, 9/19/12. 79 FR 56003, 9/18/14.
Paktech Engineers, Suite 8-A-2 2nd Floor Islam Plaza G-9 Merkaz, Islamabad, Pakistan 44000. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19.
People's Steel Mills, Javedan Nagar, Manghopir Road, Karachi 75890, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case for all items listed on the CCL. Presumption of approval for EAR99 items. | 63 FR 64322, 11/19/98.65 FR 14444, 3/17/00.66 FR 50090, 10/1/01.77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
People's Steel Mills, Karachi. | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case for all items listed on the CCL. Presumption of approval for EAR99 items | 63 FR 64322, 11/19/98.65 FR 14444, 3/17/00.66 FR 50093, 10/1/01.
Pervaiz Commercial Trading Co. (PCTC), PCTC House, 36-B Model Town, Lahore, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18.
Polymaster Engineering, Office Number 7, Islam Plaza, G-9 Markaz, Islamabad, 44000, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
Potohar Industrial & Trading Concern, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Potohar. Office No. 7, 3rd Floor, Tarnol, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Premier International, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Align Impex. Suite E-2, E-Market, DHA EME Sector, Multan Road, Lahore-54500, Pakistan; and Suite 22 1st Floor Lodhi Arcade, 42 Ferozpur Road, Lahore, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 24245, 5/26/17.
Prime International | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case for all items listed on the CCL. Presumption of approval for EAR99 items | 63 FR 64322, 11/19/98.65 FR 14444, 3/17/00.66 FR 50093, 10/1/01.
Prime Tech, Office No. 11, 1st., Floor MICCOP Center, 1-Mozang Road, Lahore-54000, Pakistan; and 699 Khayaban-e-Suhrwardy, Abpara Market, Islamabad 44000 Pakistan. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Proc-Master, C-228 P&T Society, Sector 31D, Korangi, Karachi, 74900, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Professional Systems (Pvt) Ltd., 22-A, Main Road, Sector I-8/2, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Proficient Engineers, Tariq Block, 437 New Garen Town, Lahore, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18.
Q&N Traders, Office 1, Flat 2, Anjum Plaza, Near TCS Centre, New Mall Chowk, Bahria Enclave Road, Islamabad, Pakistan. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
QTech, West Land Trade Centre, Suite 615-B, 6th Floor C/5, Block 7 & 8, Commercial Area, KCHS, Shaheed-e-Millat Road, Karachi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Quantum Logix (Private) Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Quantum Logix (Pvt) Ltd. Plot No 22, Sector H-9, Islamabad, 46000, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Rachna Supplies (Pvt) Ltd., Office No. 26, 3rd Floor, Kohinoor One, Kohinoor City, Jarranwala Road, Faisalabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Rainbow Solutions, GS Plaza No. 220, 3rd Floor, Hotel View Park, Spring North Commercial, Phase-7, Bahria Town, Islamabad 44000, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.2(d), and 744.3(d) of the EAR | 87 FR 75174, 12/8/22.
RASTEK Technologies, C-15, Classic Centre Block-16, Gulshan-e Iqbal, Main University Road, Karachi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Rehan Feroze, Suite No. 28, Al-Behbood Plaza, The Mall, Wah Cantt, Wah, Punjab, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
Rehman Engineering and Services, Office Number 12, 3rd Floor, Al Hafeez View 67-D/1, Sire Syed Road, Gulberg-III, Lahore, 54660, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Resource Enterprises, House No. 111, Street No. 49, F-11/3, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Rockside Enterprise, 10th Floor, Emerald Tower, Main Clifton Road, Karachi 75600, Pakistan; and Street 17 Karachi, Sindh Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
Rohtas Enterprises, Flat No. 8, Third Floor, Green Valley Apartments, Behind Faiz ul ]slam Complex, Faizabad-Rawalpindi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19.
Samina Pvt. Ltd., 203 Hotel Imperial Building, #2M.T. Kahn Road, Karachi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
SANCO Pakistan, Office No. 11, First Floor, City Center Plaza, D-12 Markaz, Islamabad, Pakistan; and House #269, Street #17, Sector F-10/2, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
Sayyed Brothers Engineering Co. (SBEC), House No. 805, Street No. 80-C, I-8/4, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Sci-Tech Global, House No. 533, Street 66, Pakistan Town Phase-I, Islamabad 45720, Pakistan; and 1st Floor, The British School Building, 252-A, Pakistan Town Phase I, Korang Town Link Road, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Seljuk Traders (SMC-Private) Limited, Ch. Zakir House, Main Tamma Road, Next to Jinnah Muslim Law College, P.O. Tarlai Kalan Islamabad, 45550, Pakistan. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Sher Qadir, Darpa Khel Village, Mirim Shaw, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 8527, 2/18/15.
Sine Technologies, 461 B Block, Faisal Town, Lahore, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Skytech Global Pvt. Ltd., House No. 46A, Street 27, F-6/2, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
SNTS Tech, Plot #C-750, First Floor, Lane #14, Lala Rukh, Wah Cantt, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
Solutions Engineering Pvt. Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Solutronix Engineering Pvt. Ltd. and—Solutronix Pvt. Ltd. 95A Solutions Tower, DHA Phase 8 Commercial Broadway, Lahore, Pakistan; and 54-B PAF Colony, Zarar Shaheed, Lahore, Pakistan; and Ground Floor, Almas Tower, Begum Salma Tassadaq Road, Near E Plomer, Lahore, Pakistan; and Suite 1&4, Hafeez Chamber 85 The Mall Lahore, Pakistan; and Gohawa Dak Dhana Bhatta Kohaar, Lahore, Pakistan; and Sehajpal Village, near New Airport Road, Lahore, Pakistan; and, Office #201, 2nd Floor, Capital Business Center, F-10 Markaz, Islamabad, Pakistan; and 156 The Mall, Rawalpindi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18.
Space and Upper Atmosphere Research Commission (SUPARCO), a.k.a., the following alias:—Space and Upper Atmospheric Research Commission, Sector 28, Gulzar-e-Hijiri, Off University Road, P.O. Box 8402, Karachi 75270. | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case for all items listed on the CCL. Presumption of approval for EAR99 items. | 63 FR 64322,11/19/98.65 FR 14444,03/17/00.66 FR 50090,10/01/01.77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
Sumico Technologies, 185-J-1, Muhammad Ali Johar Town, Lahore, Pakistan; and House #307-B Upper Floor Main Margalla Road, F-11/3 Islamabad, Pakistan; and House #E-26 Block A Railway Society, Gulshan-E-Jamal, Karachi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 24245, 5/26/17.
Supply Source Co., Suite 102, Green Trust Tower, Jinnah Avenue, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Suzhou Keda Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a, the following one alias:—Kedacom. 4/A1, Plot # 4E-II, 6th Jami Commercial St., Phase VII, Near Khayaban-e-Ittehad, DHA, Karachi, Pakistan. (See alternate addresses under China, Netherlands, Singapore, South Korea, and Turkey). | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Techlink Communications, 111B Block No. 2, Mezzanine Floor, Khalid bin Waleed Road, P.E.C.H.S., Karachi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 44824, 9/4/18.83 FR 61541, 11/13/19.
Techlinks, Suite 3, 2nd Floor, Kashmir Center, 632/G-1 Market Johar Town, Lahore, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 44824, 9/4/18.84 FR 61541, 11/13/19.
Technical Services, Islamabad. | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case for all items listed on the CCL. Presumption of approval for EAR99 items | 63 FR 64322, 11/19/98.65 FR 14444, 3/17/00.66 FR 50093, 10/1/01.
Techno-Commercial, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—TCL; and—Techserve. 8-22-24 Farid Plaza, 65 Shadman, Lahore, Pakistan. | All Items Subject to the EAR | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 86 FR 29193, 6/1/21.
Technologic Enterprises, B-20 Ramzan Plaza, Bank Road, Saddar, Rawalpindi, Punjab, Pakistan; and 17-B Ramzan Bank Road NTN#2567865-5, Rawalpindi, Pakistan; and 257 Street 6, Ali Block H-13/3, Islamabad, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
TELEC Electronics & Machinery (Pvt) Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—TELEC. 415 Mehboob Chambers, Abdullah Haroon Road, Saddar, Karachi, 74400; and No. 1363, Cornice Road, Phase 3, Bahria Town, Islamabad, Pakistan. | All Items Subject to the EAR | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 86 FR 29193, 6/1/21.
The Sadidians, 1st Floor, Sadid Plaza, 3, Main Commercial Area, Canal View Society, Multan Road, Lahore, 53700, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
The Tempest Trading Company, Islamabad. | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case for all items listed on the CCL. Presumption of approval for EAR99 items | 63 FR 64322, 11/19/98.65 FR 14444, 3/17/00.66 FR 50093, 10/1/01.
Triton Educational Equipment & Consultancy Co., Number 9, 4th floor, Khyber Plaza, Fazal-ul-Haq Road, Blue Area, Islamabad, Pakistan 46000. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
TROJANS, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —TROJANS Solutions; —TROJANS Pakistan Ltd; and —M/S TROJANS. House No. 271-A-Street No. 55 Sector F-11/4, Islamabad, Pakistan; and Plot No. 48 Fechs Commercial Area Service Road North Northern Strip Sect E-11/2 44000 Islamabad, Pakistan; and No. 237-C, Faisal Town Lahore, Punjab, 54000, Pakistan; and No. 306-Anum Empire, Block 7/8, K.C.H Society, Main Shahrah-e-Faisal, Kirachi, Sindh,74200, Pakistan; and Plot. 33 Islamabad City Center, Services Housing Society E-11/2, Islamabad, Pakistan; and Block 6, PECHS, Shahrah-e-Faisal Karachi, Sindh 75400, Pakistan. (See alternate address in U.A.E). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.2(d), and 744.3(d) of the EAR | 87 FR 75174, 12/8/22.
UEC (Pvt.) Ltd., 29-M, Civic Centre, Model Town Ext. Lahore-43700, Pakistan; and Office No. 610, 6th Floor, Progressive Centre, 30-A, Block No. 6, P.E.C.H.S., Karachi, Pakistan (See alternate addresses under Saudi Arabia and U.A.E.) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 44824, 9/4/18.
U.H.L. Company, 8/35 Arkay Square, Sharah-e-Liaquat, New Chali, Karachi, Pakistan. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Unique Technical Promoters | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case for all items listed on the CCL. Presumption of approval for EAR99 items | 63 FR 64322, 11/19/98.65 FR 14444, 3/17/00.66 FR 50093, 10/1/01.
United Engineering, Office No. 5, Royal Centre, Peshawar Road, Rawalpindi, Pakistan; and 183C Muslim Colony, Near Kala Pul, Off Korangi Road, Karachi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
United Institute of Technical Professional Education, 78-A, The Mall, Saddar, Punjab, Rawalpindi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
Universal Drilling Engineers, 6-Main Water Land Park Road, Melad Chowk Near Saggian Ravi Bridge, Lahore, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.2(d), and 744.3(d) of this part | 87 FR 75174, 12/8/22.
Universal Tooling Services, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Forward Design and Manufacturing;—MSM Enterprises; and—Technopak Engineering. Deen Plaza, 68/62, Adamjee Road, Saddar P.O. Box 1640, GPO Rawalpindi, Pakistan; and G-7, Nimra Centre 7, Badami Bagh, Lahore, Pakistan; and 31/B Faisal Town, Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan; and Model Town, HMC Road, Taxila, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial. | 81 FR 90714, 12/15/16.
Uzman Feroze, B-20 Ramzan Plaza, Bank Road, Saddar, Rawalpindi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
Value Additions (Pvt) Ltd., 392-C, Qadeer Road, Rawalpindi, Pakistan. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 87 FR 8182, 2/14/22.
Veteran Avia LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Veteran Airline. Room No. 1, ALC Building, PIA Cargo Complex Jiap, Karachi, Pakistan (See also addresses under Armenia, Greece, and U.K.) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 56003, 9/18/14. 81 FR 8829, 2/23/16. 82 FR 2887, 1/10/17.
Wah Chemical Product Plant, a.k.a., the following alias:—Wah Nobel Chemicals Limited, Wah Cantonment, Rawalpindi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case for all items listed on the CCL. Presumption of approval for EAR99 items. | 63 FR 64322, 11/19/98.66 FR 50090, 10/01/01.77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
Wah Munitions Plant, Wah Cantonment, Rawalpindi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. | Case-by-case for all items listed on the CCL. Presumption of approval for EAR99 items. | 63 FR 64322, 11/19/98.65 FR 14444, 3/17/00.66 FR 50090, 10/1/01.77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
X-Cilent Engineering, 642, Afshan Colony, Rawalpindi Cantt, 46000, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 87 FR 8182, 2/14/22.87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Zaheer & Sons, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Zaheer Sons. Suite 2, 3rd Floor, Nadir House, I.I. Chundrigar Road, Karachi, Pakistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
PANAMA | Huawei Technologies Cr Panama S.A, Ave. Paseo del Mar, Costa del Este Torre MMG, Piso 17 Ciudad de Panamá, Panama. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Lerma Trading S.A., Calle 53a, Este, Panama. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 80646, 12/28/15.
Novax Group S.A., Avenida Aquilino de la Guardia con Calle 47, Edificio Ocean Plaza, Piso 16, Oficina 8, Ciudad de Panama, Panama. (See alternate addresses under Costa Rica, Ecuador, Russia, and Venezuela). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 80957, 11/21/23.
Wheels Incorporated, P.O. Box 6—2875, El Dorado, Panama. (See alternate address under Israel). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.
Zero Waste Global S.A., 58 Street Obarrios Office One Building, Suite 1302, Panama City, Panama. (See alternate address under Venezuela). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 80957, 11/21/23.
PARAGUAY | Huawei Technologies Paraguay S.A., Asuncion, Paraguay. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
PERU | Huawei Cloud Peru, Lima, Peru. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
PHILIPPINES | Warren Sumaylo, 053 E Luna Street, Bgry Sikatuna, Butuan City, Philippines. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 57454, 8/23/16.
POLAND | Doncoaltrade SP Z O O, Ul. Barbary 21, Katowice, woj. Slaskie, pow. M. Katowice 40-053, Poland. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 6952, 2/16/18.
PORTUGAL | Huawei Technology Portugal, Avenida Dom João II, 51B-11°.A 1990-085 Lisboa, Portugal. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
QATAR | Huawei Tech Investment Limited, Doha, Qatar. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
ROMANIA | Huawei Technologies Romania Co., Ltd., Ion Mihalache Blvd, No. 15-17, 1st District, 9th Floor of Bucharest Tower center, Bucharest, Romania. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Southeast Trading Oy, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Southeast Trading LTD. Bucharest, Romania. (See also addresses under Finland and Russia) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15.
RUSSIA | 3DiVi OOO, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Tridivi LLC. 64-d Lenin Ave., 6th floor, Chelyabinsk, 454080, Russia; and 48 Prospekt Makeeva, Miass, Chelyabinskaya Oblast, 4563200, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
5th Shipyard, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—5-y Sudoremontnyy Zavod;—5 SRZ; and—JSC GF 5 SRZ JSC TsS Zvezdochka. 67 Lenina Street, Port, Temryuk, Krasnodarskiy Kray, 353500, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
27th Scientific Center of the Russian Ministry of Defense, a.k.a., the following one alias:—27th NTs. Birgadirskiy pereulok 13, 105005, Moscow, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR | See § 744.4(d) of this part | 86 FR 12531, 3/4/21.
33rd Scientific Research and Testing Institute, a.k.a., the following one alias:—33rd TsNIII. 1 Ulitsa Krasnoznamennaya, Volsk-18/Shikhany, Saratov Oblast, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
46th TSNII Central Scientific Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—46 TsNII; and—46 TsNII MO RF. 10 Chukotskiy Proyezd, Moscow, 129327, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22.
48th Central Scientific Research Institute, Kirov, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—48th TsNII Kirov;—Scientific Research Institute of Microbiology; and—Scientific Research Institute of Epidemiology and Hygiene. 119 Oktyabrsky Prospekt, Kirov, Kirov Oblast, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
48th Central Scientific Research Institute, Sergiev Posad, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—48th TsNII Sergiev Posad;—Zargorsk Institute;—Scientific Research Institute of Medicine; and—The Virology Center. 11 Ulitsa Oktyabrskaya, Sergiev Posad, Moscow Oblast, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
48th Central Scientific Research Institute, Yekaterinburg, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—48th TsNII Yekaterinburg;—Military Technical Scientific Research Institute; and—Center for Military Technical Problems of Biological Defense. 1 Ulitsa Zvezdnaya, Yekaterinburg, Sverdlovsk Oblast, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
A.A. Kharkevich Institute for Information Transmission Problems (IITP), Russian Academy of Sciences (RAS), a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Institute for Information Transmission Problems; and—Institut Problem Peredachi Informatsii RAN. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
A. Lyulki Experimental-Design Bureau, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —A. Lyulki OKB; —FL A. Lyulki OKB; and —A. Lyulki Experimental-Design Bureau Branch of UEC-UMPO. 8 Kasatkin Street, Building 8, Moscow 129301, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
A. Lyulki Science and Technology Center, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —FL NTTs A. Lyulki; and —Branch of UEC-Saturn A. Lyulki Science and Technology Center. 13 Kasatkin Street, Moscow, 129301, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Abris, 6 Aptekarskiy Prospeckt, Office 710, St. Petersburg, Russia 197376; and 30 16th Parkovaya St, Office 319, Moscow, Russia 105484. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Abris-KEY, 6 Aptekarskiy Prospeckt, Office 710, St. Petersburg, Russia 197376; and 30 16th Parkovaya St, Office 319, Moscow, Russia 105484. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Abris-Technology, 6 Aptekarskiy Prospeckt, Office 710, St. Petersburg, Russia 197376; and 30 16th Parkovaya St, Office 319, Moscow, Russia 105484. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Abtronics, 18, bld. 2, Frontovyh Brigad Street, Yekaterinburg 620017, Russia; and 15 A Kulakova Prospect, Office 307, Stavropol 355044, Russia; and 12/11 Bld 12, 1-st Bukhvostova Street, Moscow 107076, Russia. (See alternate address under Kazakhstan) | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 3580, 1/26/18.
Achim Development, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Achim Development; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Achim Development'. d.7 ul.Promyshlennaya, Novy Urengoi, Yamalo-Nenetski a.o. 629306, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601 preview citation details, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Acrol LLC, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Akrol LLC; and —OOO Akrol. 33 Prospekt Ispytatelei, Litera A, Room 3N, Office 14, Saint Petersburg, 197349, Russia; and 18 Prospekt Kolomyazhski, Litera A, Room 79N, Komendantski Aerodom Municipal District, Kolomyazhski, Saint Petersburg, 197384, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Admiralty Shipyard JSC, 203, Fontanka Emb., 190121, St. Petersburg, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12241, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Advanced Research Foundation, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Fond Perspektivnykh Issledovaniy; and —FPI. 22 Berezhkovskaya Embankment, Building 3, Moscow, 121059, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
AeroComposit, Antonova Prospekt 1, Zavolzhsky District, Ulyanovsk, 432072, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 48534, 9/26/18.
Aeroscan Limited Liability Company, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Aeroscan; and —OOO Aeroskan. 3 Perunovsky Pereulok, Building 2, Moscow, 127055, Russia; and 2a Avtozavodskaya Street, Izhevsk, Udmurt Republic, Russia; and 2 Moskovskaya, Street, Buzuluk, Orenburgskaya Oblast, 461042, Russia; and 3 Per. Perunovski, Street 2, Floor 2, Pomeshch. 11, Munitsipalny Okrug Marina Roshcha, Moscow, 127055, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 76129, 11/6/23.
Aerosila JSC SPE, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —JSC SPE AEROSILA; —NPP AEROSILA, AO; and —NPP AEROSILA, PPO. 6, Zhdanov St., Stupino, Moscow Region, 142800, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 25505, 4/11/24.
AFM-Servers Limited Liability Company a.k.a., the following two aliases: —AFM-Servers LLC; and —OOO AFM-Servers. Room I, Floor 16, 2 Volokolamskoe Highway, Building 6, Moscow, 125080, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Aircompany North-West LLC, a.k.a. the following two aliases: —North-West Airlines; and —North-West Aircompany. West Park Business Center, Highway Ochakovskoe 34, Office 201, Moscow, 119530, Russia; and Konstitutsii Square 7, Building A Office 71H, Saint Petersburg, 196191, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Ak Bars Holding, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Holding Company Ak Bars. 58a Korolenko St., Kazan, Republic of Tatarstan, Russia, 420094. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo AST, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Advanced Systems Technology, AO. d. 3k2 str. 4 etazh 5 kom. 55, shosse Kashirskoe, Moscow 115230, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 37903, 7/19/21.
Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Pasit, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Pasit, AO. Avenue Leninsky, Building 30, Premise IA, Moscow, 11934, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 37903, 7/19/21.
Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Pozitiv Teknolodzhiz, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—JSC Positive Technologies; and—Pozitiv Teknolodzhiz, AO. d. 23A pom. V kom, 30, shosse Shchelkovskoe, Moscow, 107241, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 37903, 7/19/21.
Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Radiotekhkomplekt, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —AO RTKT; and —Joint Stock Company Radiotechkomplekt. 35 Ul Tatarskaya B., Building 7-9, Floor 4 Pom I Kom 1, Moscow 115184, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Alagir Resistor Factory, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Alagirsky Resistor Factory. 202 L. Tolstogo Street, Alagir, Alagirsky District, Severnaya Ossetia-Alania Republic, Russia, 363240. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Aleksander Cheremshin, Ulitsa Mitinskaya 36/1, Moscow, Russia 125430; and Ordzhonikidze 10, Moscow, Russia 119071; and 10 Ordjonikidze Street, Moscow, Russia 119071; and Ulitsa Polyany 9/6, Moscow, Russia 117042; and Poljani str., 9-6, 117042, Moscow, Russia; and 9 Polyany Street, Suite 6, Moscow, Russia 117042; and 33 Ulitsa Marshala Tukhachevskogo, Suite 231, Moscow, Russia 123154; and Bolshaya Semenovskaya, 40/505, Moscow, Russia 107023; and Ulitsa Metallurgov, 29, Str. 1, Komnata Pravleni, Moscow, Russia 111401. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Aleksander Kuznetsov, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Alexander Kuznetsov, Ordzhonikidze 10, Moscow, Russia 119071; and 10 Ordjonikidze Street, Moscow, Russia 119071; and Ulitsa Polyany 9⁄6, Moscow, Russia 117042; and Poljani str., 9-6, 117042, Moscow, Russia; and 9 Polyany Street, Suite 6, Moscow, Russia 117042; and 33 Ulitsa Marshala Tukhachevskogo, Suite 231, Moscow, Russia 123154; and Bolshaya Semenovskaya, 40/505, Moscow, Russia 107023; and Ulitsa Metallurgov, 29, Str. 1, Komnata Pravleni, Moscow, Russia 111401. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Aleksandrov Scientific Research Technological Institute NITI, Koporskoe Highway, House 72, Sosnovy Bor, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Aleksey Markov, 5A North Street, Saransk, Republic of Mordovia, Russia 43006; and 53 Sherbakovskaya Street, Building 3, Office 509, 105318 Moscow, Russia; and 26 General Belov St Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 60 Bolshevistskaya St., Office 905, Saransk, Republic of Mordovia, Russia; and 60 Bolshevistskaya St., Office 910, Saransk, Republic of Mordovia, Russia; and 5a Severnaya Street, Saransk, Republic of Mordovia, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Alex Pikhtin, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Alexander Pikhtin, Pr. Yuria Gagarina 2, St. Petersburg, Russia 196105. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Alexander Georgievich Mallabiu, 25 Red Cadets Street Letter H, Office Block 2, St. Petersburg, Russia 99034; and 130-17 Nevskiy Ave., Saint Petersburg, Russia 191036; and 16 Linia V.O., 7 Office 43, St. Petersburg, Russia 99034; and Krestovski River Quay 3, Suite 42, St. Petersburg, Russia 197376. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Alexander Kuznetsov, Ulitsa Artyukhina 6B, 106, Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Alexander Nikolayevich Vadyunin, 154 Block 1 Building 57, Privolnaya Street, Moscow, 109453, Russia; and #301, Building 15, B. Dimitrovka St, Moscow, 125009, Russia; and #313, Block 11 Building 1, Partiyny Pereulok, Moscow, 125009, Russia; and #603, Block 1 Building 8A, Ryazanski Prospekt, Moscow, Russia; and Privolnaya St., Dom 57, Kor 1, Moscow, Russia. (See alternate address under Cyprus) | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Alexander V. Brindyuk, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Aleksander Brendyuk Pr. Yuria Gagarina 2, Office 801, St. Petersburg, Russia 196105. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Alexander Vedyashkin, 5A North Street, Saransk, Republic of Mordovia, Russia 43006; and 53 Sherbakovskaya Street, Building 3, Office 509, 105318 Moscow, Russia; and 26 General Belov St Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 60 Bolshevistskaya St., Office 905, Saransk, Republic of Mordovia, Russia; and 60 Bolshevistskaya St., Office 910, Saransk, Republic of Mordovia, Russia; and 5a Severnaya Street, Saransk, Republic of Mordovia, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Alexey Ivanov Zhuravlev, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Alexy Ivanov Pr. Yuria Gagarina 2, Office 801, St. Petersburg, Russia 196105; and Pr. Yuria Gagarina 1, Office 230, St. Petersburg, Russia 196105; and Pr. Yuri Gagarin 1, Office 230, St. Petersburg, Russia 196105. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Alexey Kulakov, Naberezhnaya Chernoi Rechki 61-1, St. Petersburg, Russia 197342; and Naberegnaja Chernoj Rechki 61-1, 197342, Saint Petersburg, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Alexey Polynkov, 471-4-98 Shosse Entuziastov, Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Alfakomponent, a.k.a., the following one alias: —OOO Alfakomponent. 140 Leninski Prospect, Litera E, Office 407A, Saint Petersburg, 198216, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 76129, 11/6/23.
All Russia Scientific Research Institute of Optical Physical Measurements, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—All-Russian Research Institute for Optical and Physical Measurements Federal State Unitary Enterprise; and—FSUE VNIIOFI. 46 Ozernaya St., Moscow, 119361, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22.
All-Russian Scientific-Research Institute Etalon JSC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—VNII Etalon JSC. 19/1 1st Yamskogo Polya St., Moscow, 125124, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
All-Russian Scientific Research Institute of Technical Physics (VNIITF), a.k.a., the following eight aliases:—Vserossiyskiy Nauchno-Issledovatelskiy Institut Tekhnicheskoy Fiziki;—Russian Federal Nuclear Center-VNIITF (RFNC-VNIITF);—Kasli Nuclear Weapons Development Center;—Institute of Technical Physics;—Zababakhin Institute;—ARITP (All Russian Institute for Technical Physics);—Federal State Unitary Enterprise Russian Federal Nuclear Center—Academician E.I. Zababkhin All-Russian Scientific Research Institute of Technical Physics (FGUPRFYaTs-VNIITF)—Chelyabinsk-70, (Address: P.O. Box 245, 456770, Snezhinsk, Chelyabinsk Region Russia); and any nuclear-related entities, institutes, or centers located in Snezhinsk. | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case basis | 62 FR 35334, 6/30/97.66 FR 24267, 5/14/01.75 FR 78883, 12/17/10.76 FR 30000, 5/24/11.
All-Russian Scientific Research Institute of Experimental Physics (VNIIEF), a.k.a., the following nine aliases:—Vserossiyskiy Nauchno-Issledovatelskiy Institut Eksperimentalnoy Fiziki;—Russian Federal Nuclear Center-VNIIEF (RFNC-VNIIEF);—Institute of Experimental Physics;—ARIEP (All Russian Institute for Experimental Physics);—Khariton Institute;—Sarov Nuclear Weapons Plant;—Avangard Electromechanical Plant;—Federal State Unitary Enterprise Russian Federal Nuclear Center—All Russian Scientific Research Institute of Experimental Physics (FGUPRFNCs VNIIEF)—Arzamas-16, (Address: 37 Mira Ave. Sarov, Nizhny Novgorod Region, 607188 Russia); and any nuclear-related entities, institutes or centers located in Sarov (Kremlev). | For all items subject to the EAR | Case-by-case basis | 62 FR 35334, 6/30/97 66 FR 24267, 5/14/01 75 FR 78883, 12/17/10 76 FR 30000, 5/24/11.
Alliance EG Ltd., Leninsky Prospect 139, Office 310 St., Petersburg 198216, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial. See § 746.8(b) | 87 FR 76926, 12/16/22.
Almaz-Antey Air Defense Concern Main System Design Bureau, JSC (a.k.a., A.A. Raspletin Main System Design Bureau; a.k.a. Almaz-Antey GSKB; a.k.a. Almaz-Antey GSKB Imeni Academician A.A. Raspletin; a.k.a. Almaz-Antey MSDB; a.k.a. Almaz-Antey PVO 'Air Defense' Concern Lead Systems Design Bureau OAO 'Open Joint-Stock Company' Imeni Academician A.A. Raspletin; a.k.a. Golovnoye Sistemnoye Konstruktorskoye Byuro Open Joint-Stock Company of Almaz-Antey PVO Concern Imeni Academician A.A. Raspletin; a.k.a. Joint Stock Company Almaz-Antey Air Defense Concern Main System Design Bureau, Named by Academician A.A. Raspletin; a.k.a. Joint Stock Company Almaz-Antey Air Defense Concern Main System Design Bureau; a.k.a. Almaz-Antey; a.k.a. JSC 'Almaz-Antey' MSDB, f.k.a., Otkrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Nauchno Proizvodstvennoe Obedinenie Almaz Imeni Akademika A.A. Raspletina; a.k.a. GSKB) Address: 16-80, Leningradsky Prospect, Moscow 125190, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 55612, 9/17/14.
Almaz JSC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Almaz. 16 Tupoleva Street, Rostov-na-Donu, Rostovskaya Oblast, 344093, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Amur Shipbuilding Factory PJSC, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—PAO Amurskiy Sudostroitelnyy Zavod; and—PJSC ASZ. 1 Alleya Truda Street, Komsomolsk-na-Amure, Khabarovskiy Krai, Russia, 681000. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Anastasya Arkhipova, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Anatasiya Arkhipova, 26 General Belov St, Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 53 Sherbakovskaya Street, Building 3, Office 509, 105318 Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Andrey Gruzdew, 25 Red Cadets Street Letter H, Office Block 2, St. Petersburg, Russia 99034; and 130-17 Nevskiy Ave., Saint Petersburg, Russia 191036; and 16 Linia V.O., 7 Office 43, St. Petersburg, Russia 99034; and Krestovski River Quay 3, Suite 42, St. Petersburg, Russia 197376. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Andrey Leonidovich Kuznetsov, 69 Udaltsova Street 49, Moscow, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Andrey V Gromadskih, 32 Korablestroiteley St., building #1, Apt #119, St. Petersburg, Russia 199397; and Zastavskaya St. 32A, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Zastavskaya St. 15-B, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Raketnyy Bul'var 15, Moscow, Russia 129164; and 16 Raketnyy Bul'var, Moscow, Russia 129164. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Andrey Vladimirovich Saponchik, 6 Aptekarskiy Prospekt, Office 710, St. Petersburg, Russia 197376; and Naberezhnaya Chernoi Rechki 61-1, St. Petersburg, Russia 197342; and 7 Belovodskiy Ln, St. Petersburg, Russia 194044; and Belovodskyi Per, 7, St. Petersburg, Russia 194044; and Naberegnaja Chernoj Rechki 61-1, 197342, Saint Petersburg, Russia; and 16 Parkovaya 30, Office 319, Moscow, Russia 105484. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Angstrem-M, Dom 4, Stroennie 3, Proezd 4806, Zelenograd, Russia 124460. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
Anna V Libets, Zastavskaya St. 32A, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Zastavskaya St. 15-B, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Raketnyy Bul'var 15, Moscow, Russia 129164; and 16 Raketnyy Bul'var, Moscow, Russia 129164. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Anton Khramov, 86 N Prospect Obukhovskoy Oborony, St. Petersburg, Russia 190000. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Anton Lebedev, Pr. Yuria Gagarina 2, Office 801, St. Petersburg, Russia 196105; and Pr. Yuria Gagarina 1, Office 230, St. Petersburg, Russia 196105; and Pr. Yuri Gagarin 1, Office 230, St. Petersburg, Russia 196105. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Anton Yurevich Alekseyev, Ulitsa Mitinskaya 30/4, Moscow, Russia 123430. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
AO Aviaagregat,1 Shukovskogo Street, Zhukovskiy, Moscow Oblast, 140196, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
AO Center of Shipbuilding and Ship Repairing JSC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—AO Tsentr Tekhnologii Sudostroyeniya i Sudoremonta. 7 Promyshlennaya Street, St. Petersburg, Russia, 198095. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
AO Geomir, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Inzhenemy Tsentr Geomir, AO; —Inzhenerny Center Geomir; —ZAO Inzhenemyy Tsentr Geomir; —CJSC Engineering Center Geomir; and —JSC Geomir. 50 Olimpiyskiy Prospekt, Mytishchi, Moscow Oblast, 141006, Russia; and 24 Mel'nichnyy pereulok, Voronezh, 394030, Russia; and 249 Krasnykh Partizan St., Office 209/2, Krasnodar, 350047, Russia; and 39 Molodogvardeysky Lane, Office 2, Rostov-on-Don, 344029, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g)3, 746.8(a)(3), and 744.2l(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
AO 'Institute Giprostroymost—Saint-Petersburg' (f.k.a., Institut Giprostroimost-Sankt-Peterburg, ZAO; and ZAO 'Institute Giprostroymost Saint-Petersburg'), a.k.a., the following three aliases:—AO 'Institute Giprostroymost—Sankt-Peterburg';—JSC 'Institute Giprostroymost—Saint-Petersburg'; and—JSC 'Institute Giprostroymost—Sankt-Peterburg'. 7 Yablochkova Street, St. Petersburg 197198, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
AO Kaspersky Lab, a.k.a., the following twelve aliases: —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Laboratoriya Kasperskogo; —AO Kaspersky Laboratory; —AO Laboratoriya Kasperskogo; —Joint Stock Company Kaspersky Lab; —JSC Kaspersky Lab; —Kaspersky; —Kaspersky Lab CJSC; —Kaspersky Lab ZAO; —Kaspersky Lab; —Kaspersky Laboratory; —Kaspersky Labs; and —Kaspersky's Laboratory. 39A Leningradskoe Highway, Business Center Olimpiya Park, Building 2, Moscow, 125212, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 52363, 6/24/24.
AO Kraftway Corporation PSC, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Craftway Corporation PLS; —JSC Kraftway Corporation PLS; and —KRAFTVEI KORPOREISHN PLS, AO. 16, 3rd Mytishchinskaya Street, Moscow, 129626, Russia; and 64 Kievskoe Hwy, Obninsk, Kaluga Region, 249032, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b) and 746.8(a)(3). of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 75174, 12/8/22.
AO Kronshtadt, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Kronshtadt Group;—Kronshtadt;—Kronde Group; and—ZAO Kronshtadt. 18 Stromynka Street, Moscow, Russia, 107076; and In. 3-Ya V.O., D. 62 litera A Pom 162, St. Petersburg, Russia, 199178; and 54 Maly Prospekt Vasilyevskogo Ostrova, Building 4P, St. Petersburg, Russia, 199178. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
AO Papilon, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Papilon. 48 Prospekt Makeeva, Miass, Chelyabinskaya Oblast, 4563200, Russia; and 63 Novocheremushkinskaya Str., Bld. 1, Moscow, 117418, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
AO PKK Milandr, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —JSC PKK Milandr; —Milandr; —MPK Milandr, OOO; and —PKK Milandr AO. Georgievsky Prospekt, 5, Floor 2, Room 38, Zelenograd, Moscow, 124498, Russia; and Office 38, Premises I, 2nd Floor, 5, Georgievskiy Prospekt, Zelenograd, 124498, Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b), and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 75174, 12/8/22.
AO Rubin, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Rubin, Rubin ZAO. 8 11 Line of Vasilievsky Island, St. Petersburg, 199034, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
AO Scientific Research Center for Electronic Computing, a.k.a., the following eight aliases: —NITsEVT; —NICEVT; —The Research Center for Electronic Computer Engineering (NICEVT); —Joint Stock Company Scientific Research Center for Electronic Computer Engineering (JSC NICEVT); —Scientific Research Center Electronic Computing Techniques; —NITSEVT, PAO; —OAO NICEVT; and —NITSEVT, AO. 125 Varshavskoye Hwy Moscow, 117587, Russia; and 125 Warsaw Highway, Moscow, 117587, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b) and 746.8(a)(3). of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 75174, 12/8/22.
AO SET-1, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —AO Set-1; —Set-1 JSC; and —Cet-1 JSC. 38A 2nd Khutorskaya St., Bldg. 1, office 614, Moscow, 127287, Russia; and St. Pervomaiskaya Verkhn, 43, Moscow, 105264, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g)3, 746.8(a)(3), and 744.2l(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
APEX, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—APEKS;—APEX Systems;—OOO APEX; and—APEX Ltd., 26 General Belov St Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 53 Sherbakovskaya Street, Building 3, Office 509, Moscow, Russia 105318. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
APEX St. Petersburg, 140 Leninsky Prospekt, Office 57, St. Petersburg, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
APEX Yekaterinburg, 106 Kuybyshev Str, Office 68, Yekaterinburg, Russia; and Ulitsa 9 March, D. 120B, Office 312 620100, Yekaterinburg, Russia; and 106 K 68 ul Kuibysheva, 620100, Yekaterinburg, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Aquanika, a.k.a., the following five aliases:—Aquanika LLC, and—LLC Russkoye Vremya, and—Obshchestvo S Organichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Russkoe Vremya', and—Russkoe Vremya OOO, and—Russkoye Vremya LLC. 47A Sevastopolski Ave., of. 304, Moscow 117186, Russia; and 1/2 Rodnikovaya ul., Savasleika s., Kulebakski raion, Nizhegorodskaya oblast 607007, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 24561, 5/1/14.
ARD Satcom, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —ARD Satcom Service, LLC; and —ARD Satkom Servis. 40 Partizanskaya Street, Moscow, 121359, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Argussoft Company LLC, 35 Bolshaya Yakimanka Street, Floor 1, Room 5/II/1-2, Moscow, 119049, Russia; and 9 Godovikova, Street, Building 2, Floor 1, Room IX, Moscow, 129085, Russia; and 104 Pervomayskaya Street, Office 206/3, Floor 2, Yekaterinburg, 620990, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Argut OOO, 6 Mnevniki str end 6 fl, Moscow 123308, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 13061, 3/8/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Arsenal, 26 General Belov St, Office 19, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 19, Moscow, Russia 115583. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Art Logistics LLC, a.k.a. the following one alias: —Art of Logistics LLC. Building 32, Kirovogradskaya Street, Moscow, 117519, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Arzam Scientific Production Enterprise Temp Avia, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—OKB Temp;—Temp-Avia Arzamas Research and Production Association JSC; and—ANPP Temp-Avia. 26 Kirova St., Arzamas, 607220, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22.
AST Components, 56 Entuziastov Highway, Str 32, Floor 2, Rooms 219,221, Moscow, 111123, Russia; and 11 Kasatkina Street, Building 2, Moscow 129301, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
ATB Electronica LLC, a.k.a. the following three aliases: —ATB Electronica; —ATB ELEKTRONICA; and —ATB Electronics. 2 24 Pravdy Street, Building 7, Floor 1, Premises X, Room 12, Moscow, 125124, Russia; and Building 2, 11 Kasatkina St., Moscow, 129301, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Atrilor, Ltd, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Atrilor LLC; and—OOO Atrilor, 36 Mitinskaya St, Building 1, Office 406, Moscow, Russia 125430; and 53 Shcherbakovskaya Street, Moscow 105187. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Automated Procurement System for State Defense Orders, LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—AST GOZ LLC. 78/1 Profsoyuznaya St., Moscow, 117393, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22.
Autonomous Noncommercial Organization Professional Association of Designers of Data Processing Systems, a.k.a., the following one alias:—ANO PO KSI Prospekt Mira D 68, Str 1A, Moscow 129110, Russia; and Dom 3, Lazurnaya Ulitsa, Solnechnogorskiy Raion, Andreyevka, Moscow Region 141551, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 724, 1/4/17.
Avant-Space LLC, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—AVANT-SPEIS;—Avant Space Systems;—Avant Space Propulsion Systems; and—OOO Avant-Spejs. 4/7 Lugovaya Street, Skolkovo Innovation Center, Moscow, Russia, 143026; and 42 Bolshoy Bulvar, Skolkovo, Moscow, Russia, 143026; and 12 Presnenskaya Embankment, Moscow, Russia, 123112. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial. Case-by-case basis for items for U.S. Government supported use in the International Space Station (ISS) | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Avcom-Technique, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Avcom Group;—Avcom-Technique Ltd;—AVCOM-D; and—OOO Avkom Tekhnik. Airport Ramenskoe (Zhukovsky), Narkomvod Street 7, Russia; and Moscow Region, Zhukovsky City, Narkomvod Street, 7, Russia; and Room 5, 95B Kashirskoe Highway, Domodedovo, Moscow Region, 142004, Russia; and Pom. 5, D. 95B, Kashirskoe Shosse, Domodedovo, Moskovskaya Region, 142004, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Avia Group LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Avia Group Ltd Terminal Aeroport Sheremetyevo Khimki, 141400 Moskovskaya obl., Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 24561, 5/1/14.
Avia Group Nord LLC, 17 A, Startovaya St., Saint Petersburg, Russia | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 24561, 5/1/14.
Avia Group Terminal Limited Liability Company, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—AG Terminal OOO;—LLC AG Terminal; and—Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu Avia Grupp Terminal, Ter. Aeroport Sheremetyevo, Khimki, Moscovskaya Oblast 141400, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 80646, 12/28/15.
Aviasnab LLC, Leningradskaya Street, Khimki, Moscow Region, 141400, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 99703, 12/11/24.
Aviatech Supply Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Aviatech; and —Aviatechexport Ltd. 630123, Aeroport St. Build.1A, 3rd Floor, Novosibirsk, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 18985, 3/30/23.
Aviazapchast PLC, 48, Ivana Franko Street, Moscow, 121351, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 18985, 3/30/23.
Avilon Ltd., 9/1-417, Montazhnaya St., Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
Aviton, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Aviton company;—For Salmi; and—Salmi LLC, Naberezhnaya Chernoi Rechki 61-1, St. Petersburg, Russia 197342; and 6 Aptekarskiy Prospect, Office 710, St. Petersburg, Russia 197376; and 7 Belovodskiy Ln, St. Petersburg, Russia 194044; and Belovodskiy Per, 7, St. Petersburg, Russia 194044; and Naberegnaja Chernoj Rechki 61-1, 197342, Saint Petersburg, Russia; and 16 Parkovaya 30, Office 319, Moscow, Russia 105484. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Baikal Electronics, Building B2, Territory of 26 km of the highway “Baltia,” BC “Riga Land,” Krasnogorsk District, Moscow, Russia, 143421. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Bespilotnye Sistemy LLC, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —OOO Bespilotnye Sistemy; —LLC Unmanned Systems; and —Unmanned Systems Group of Companies. 24 10 Let Oktyabrya Street, Apartment 62, Izhevsk, Republic of Udmurtskaya, 426011, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Best Komp Group, P.O. Box 242, St. Petersburg, Russia 196240. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
BIC-Inform LLC, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —OOO BIC-Inform; and —OOO BIK-Inform. 9 Bumazhnaya Street, K. 1, Litera A, Rooms 201-209, Saint Petersburg, 190020, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 76129, 11/6/23.
Bike Center, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Baik. V. Tsentr;—Baik. V. Tsentr, OOO; and—Bike V. Center. Nizhnije Mnevniki, 110, Moscow, Russia; and Ul. Nikitskaya B. D.11/4, Korp .3, Moscow 103009, Russia; and 1 1⁄4, str.3 ul. Nikitskaya B., Moscow 103009, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 28408, 6/22/17.
Bitreit, a.k.a., the following one alias:—OOO Betreit, Neglinnaya Str., 18/1, emb.1 “A”, Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Branch of AO Company Sukhoi Yuri Gagarin Komsomolsk on Amur Aircraft Plant, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—KNAAZ; and—Aviation Holding Company AKhK24912 Sukhoi. 5 Skakovaya Street, Building 3, Moscow, 125040, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Branch of PAO Il—Aviastar, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Aviastar-SP. 1 Prospect Antonova, Ulyanovsk, Ulanovsk Oblast, 432072, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Branch of RSK MiG Nizhny Novgorod Aircraft Construction Plant Sokol, a.k.a., the following one alias:—NAZ Sokol. 1 Chaadaeva Street, Nizhny Novgorod, Nizhny Novgorod Oblast, 603035, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Center for Technological Competencies in Radiophtonics, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—JCS CheAZ;—TsTK;—TsTK CheAZ; and—Cheboksary Electrical Equipment Plant. 10 8th of March, Building 1, Moscow, Russia, 127083. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Central Aerohydrodynamic Institute, a.k.a., the following one alias: —TsAGI. 1 Zhukovskogo Street, Zhukovsky, Moscow Oblast, 140180, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Central Research and Development Institute Tsiklon, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Cyclone TsNII;—CRI Cyclone;—Central Research Institute Cyclone JSC; and—Intercyclone LLC. 77 Shelkovskoe Highway, Moscow, Russia, 107207. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Chimmed Group, a.k.a., the following six aliases:—OOO Khimmed;—Chimmed;—TD Chimmed;—TD Khimmed;—Khimmed; and—SPK Khimmed 9/3 Kashirskoe Highway, Moscow, Russia 115230; and Runovskiy, D 11/13, Korp 2, Moscow, Russia; and Kashirskoe, D 9, Korp 3, Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR | See §§ 744.2(d), 744.3(d), and 744.4(d) of this part | 86 FR 12531, 3/4/21.
Chkalov Novosibirsk Aviation Plant, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—NAZ; and—Aviation Holding Company AKhK Sukhoi. 15 Polzunova Street, Novosibirsk, Novosibirsk Oblast, 630051, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
CJSC Sovmortrans, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Sovmortrans CJSC. Rakhmanovskiy lane, 4, bld.1, Morskoy House, Moscow 127994, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
CJSC VANKORNEFT, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Vankorneft; and —ZAO Vankorneft. Dobrovolcheskoy Brigady St., 15, Krasnoyarsk Territory 660077, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 80 FR 52968 preview citation details, 9/2/15. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
CJSC Zest, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Zest Leasing pr. Medikov 5, of. 301, St. Petersburg, Russia; and 2 Liter a Pl. Rastrelli, St. Petersburg, 191124 Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 24561, 5/1/14.
Closed Joint Stock Company Marine Bridge and Navigation Systems, a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —AO MNS; —AO Morskie Navigatsionnye Sistemy; —JSC Morskiye Navigatsionnye Sistemy; —CJSC Marine Navigation Systems; —Marine Bridge and Navigation Systems Ltd; —Marine Navigation Systems; and —MNS SBP. 19 Promyshlennaya Street, Saint Petersburg, 198095, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Closed Joint Stock Company Special Design Bureau, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —CJSC Special Design Bureau; —ZAO SKB; and —ZAO Spetsialnoe Konstruktorskoe Byuro. 35 1905 Goda Street, Building 2404, Office 318, Perm, Perm Territory, 614014, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Closed Joint Stock Company Tekhrim, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —CJSC Tekhrim; —Techcrim; —Techrim Joint Stock Company; and —ZAO Tekhrim. 39 Prudovaya Street, Zavyalovo, Republic of Udmurtia, 427000, Russia; and 8 Golyansky Posyolok Street, Izhevsk, Republic of Udmurtia, 426063, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Closed Joint Stock Company Turborus, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Turborus ZAO. 179 Prospect Lenina, Rybinsk, Rybinsk Region, Yaroslavl Oblast 152907, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Communication Center of the Ministry of Defence, Bolshoi Znamenskiy per. 21, Moscow, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Complex Unmanned Solutions Center LTD, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —USC LTD; and —Unmanned Solutions Center. 24/1A Luch Street, Floor 2, Room 112, Zhukovsky, Moscow Region, 140184, Russia; and Spasateley Street, 7, Zhukovsky, 140184, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies, Joint Stock Company Aeropribor Voskhod, a.k.a., the following one alias:—AP-Voskhod. 19 Tkatskaya Street, 4th Floor, Room 400, Moscow, 105318, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies, Joint Stock Company All Russian Scientific Research Institute Gradient, a.k.a., the following one alias:—VNII Gradient. 96 Sokolov Prospect, Roston-on-Don, 344010, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies, Joint Stock Company Almatyevsk Radiopribor Plant, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—JSC AZRP; and—Alzar. 2 Stroiteley Prspect, Almatyevsk, Almetyevsk, Region, Republic of Tatarstan, 423461, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies, Joint Stock Company Experimental Design Bureau Elektroavtomatika in the name of P.A. Efimov, a.k.a., the following one alias:—AO OKB Elektroavtomatika. 40 Marshal Govorov, Saint Petersburg, 198095, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies, Joint Stock Company Industrial Controls Design Bureau, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—KBPA; and—Design Bureau for Industrial Automatics. 239 Bolshaya Sadovaya Street, Saratov, Saratov Oblast, 410005, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies, Joint Stock Company Kazan Instrument Engineering and Design Bureau, a.k.a., the following one alias:—KPKB. Sibirsky Trakt Street, Kazan, Republic of Tartarstan, 420061, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies, Joint Stock Company Microtechnology, a.k.a., the following one alias:—JSC Microtechnology. 44 Pioneer Street, Saint Petersburg, 197110, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies, Joint Stock Company Phasotron Scientific Research Institute of Radio Engineering, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Phasotron NIIR. 59 Kavkazky Boulevard, Floor 3, Space XIV, Room 21, Moscow, 115516, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies, Joint Stock Company Radiopribor, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Radiopribor. 2 Fatkulina Street, Kazan, Republic of Tartarstan, 420021. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies, Joint Stock Company Ramensk Instrument Engineering Bureau, a.k.a., the following one alias:—RPKB. 2 Guriev Street, Ramensk, Moscow Oblast, 140103, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies, Joint Stock Company Research and Production Center SAPSAN, a.k.a., the following one alias:—NPTs SAPSAN. 25 Avtozavodskaya Street, Room 2, Moscow, 115280, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies, Joint Stock Company Rychag, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Rychag. 37 Lipatova Street, Kazan, Republic of Tatarstan, 420075, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies, Joint Stock Company Scientific Production Enterprise Izmeritel, a.k.a., the following one alias:—NPP Izmeritel. 5 Babushkina Street, Smolensk, Smolensk Oblast, 214031, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies, Joint Stock Company Scientific Production Union for Radioelectronics named after V.I. Shimko, a.k.a., the following one alias:—NPO Radioelectronics N.A. V.I. Shimko. 50 Journalists Street, Republic of Tartarstan, 420029, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies, Joint Stock Company Taganrog Communications Scientific Research Institute, a.k.a., the following one alias:—TNIIS. 3 Sedova Street, Taganrog, Rostov Oblast, 347913, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies, Joint Stock Company Urals Instrument Engineering Plant, a.k.a., the following one alias:—JSC UPZ. 25 Km Tract Street, Chelyabinsk, Svertsky, Sverdlovsk Oblast, 624000, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies, Joint Stock Company Vzlet Engineering Testing Support, a.k.a., the following one alias:—ISI Vzlet. ISI Vzlet Room, Aktyubinsk-7, Aktyubinsk Region, Astrakhan Oblast, 476507, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies, Joint Stock Company Zhiguli Radio Plant, a.k.a., the following one alias:—ZhRZ. 1 Radiozavod Street, Zhigulevsk, Samara Oblast, 44539, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies, Public Joint Stock Company Bryansk Special Design Bureau, a.k.a., the following one alias:—BEMZ 136 Vokzalnaya Street, Bryansk, 241017, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies, Public Joint Stock Company Moscow Institute of Electro Mechanics and Automation, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Joint Stock Company Moscow Institute of Electromechanics and Automatics;—MIEA JSC; —Moscow Institute of Electromechanics and Automatics PJSC; —Moskovskiy Institute Elektromekhaniki I Avtomatiki; and—PAO MIEA. 5 Aviation Lane, Moscow, 125167, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22. 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies, Public Joint Stock Company Stavropol Radio Plant Signal, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Signal Radio Plant. 9A 2nd Yugo-Zapadny Proezd, Stavropol, Stavropol Krai, 355037. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies, Public Joint Stock Company Techpribor, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Techpribor. 5A Varshavskaya Street, Saint Petersburg, 196128, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies, Ramensky Instrument Engineering Plant, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Ramensky Instrument-Engineering Plant. 39 Mikhalevicha Street, Room 20, Floor 2, Space 124, Ramensk, Moscow Oblast, 140100, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies, V.V. Tarasov Avia Avtomatika, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Kursk Open Joint Stock Company Kursk Pribor; and—Kursk Pribor. 47 Zapolnaya Street, Kursk, 305040, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Concord Catering, Nab. Lieutenant Schmidt D. 7, von Keyserling Mansion, St. Petersburg 119034, Russia; and Ulitsa Volkhonka Dom 9, Moscow 119019, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 28408, 6/22/17.
Cosmos Complect, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Kosmos Komplekt;—Cosmos Complect Ltd.; and—COSMOS. Sokolovo-Meshcherskaya Street, Building 14, Office 9, 125466 Moscow, Russia; and Pyatnitskaya 39, building 2, Moscow, 119017, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
Crocus Nano Electronics, 42 Volgoradski Avenue, Fifth Floor, Moscow, Russia, 109316. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Daltransgaz, OAO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Daltransgaz; and —Otkrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo 'Daltransgaz'. d. 1 ul.Solnechnaya S. Ilinka, Khabarovski Raion Khabarovski krai 680509, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR. | 81 FR 61601 preview citation details, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Dalzavod Ship-Repair Center, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—OAO Tsentr Sudoremonta Dalzavod; and—JSC CSD. 2 Dalzavodskaya Street, Vladivostok, Russia, 690001. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Delta-Aero LLC, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —LLC TSTO “Delta-Aero”; and —DELTA-AERO TECHNICAL SERVICE CENTER LLC. 4, Kyiv Highway 22 km, Building 1, Floor 6, Room 620 A/37, Moscow, 108511, Russia; and 68/70 Butyrsky Val Street, 1st Floor, Room 110, Baker Plaza Business Center, Moscow, 127055, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 25505, 4/11/24.
Denis A Kizha, Pulkovskoe Shosse, 20-4 #159, St. Petersburg, Russia 196158; and Zastavskaya St. 32A, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Zastavskaya St. 15-B, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Raketnyy Bul'var 15, Moscow, Russia 129164; and 16 Raketnyy Bul'var, Moscow, Russia 129164. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Design Bureau of Chemical Machine Building KBKhM, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—A.M. Isayev Chemical Engineering Design Bureau; and—KB KhimMash. 12 Bogomolova St., Podlipki, Korolyev, Moscow oblast, 141070, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Device Consulting, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Device Consulting Co. Ltd. Aerodromnaya St. 6-A-45, St. Petersburg, 197348, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
Dexias Industrial Products and Trade Limited Company, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Dexias; —Dexias Endil strivel; —Dexias IPTLC; —Mainbox LLC; and —Orunler ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi. Apartment 261, Building 3, Ryabinovaya Street, Moscow. (See alternate address under Turkey). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b), and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 12171, 2/27/23. 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Digicom, LTD.,16-Ya Parkovaya Street, Building 26, K 1 Office 4201, Moscow, 105484, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Divetechnoservices, a.k.a., the following five aliases:—OOO Divetechnoservice;—OOO Daivtekhnoservis;—OOO Dayvtekhnoservis;—OOO NPP DTS; and—OOO DTS. Ulitsa Zheleznovodskaya, 18/2 Litera A, Saint Petersburg, 199155, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 48534, 9/26/18.
DJSC Factory Krasnoe Znamya, a.k.a., the following five aliases:—OJSC Factory Krasnoe Znamya;—OAO Zavod Krasnoe Znamya;—AO Krasnoye Znamya;—Krasnoye Znamya Plant OAO; and—Krasnoye Znamya Plant JSC Shabulina Travel 2a, Ryazan, 390043, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 94968, 12/27/16.
DM Link, P.O. Box 242, St. Petersburg, Russia 196240. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Dmitri Ezhov, 53 Sherbakovskaya Street, Building 3, Office 509, 105318 Moscow, Russia; and 26 General Belov Str, Office 1010, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 1010, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 General Belov St Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Dmitriy Averichev, Naberezhnaya Chernoi Rechki 61-1, St. Petersburg, Russia 197342; and Naberegnaja Chernoj Rechki 61-1, 197342, Saint Petersburg, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Dmitriy Moroz, Pr. Yuria Gagarina 2, Office 801, St. Petersburg, Russia 196105. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Dmitriy Rakhimov, 26 General Belov Str Office 1010, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 1010, Moscow, Russia 115583. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Dmitriy V Lukhanin, 25 Red Cadets Street Letter H, Office Block 2, St. Petersburg, Russia 99034; and 130-17 Nevskiy Ave., Saint Petersburg, Russia 191036; and 16 Linia V.O., 7 Office 43, St. Petersburg, Russia 99034; and Krestovski River Quay 3, Suite 42, St. Petersburg, Russia 197376. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Dmitry Alexandrovich Kravchenko, Grizodubovoy Str. 4, bld. 3, apt. 84, Moscow, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Dmitry Andreev, 4 Savelkinskiy Dr., Suite 511-512, Zelenograd, Russia 124482. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Dmitry Kochanov, 4 Pokhodnyy Dr, Bldg 1, 4th Floor, Room 417, Moscow, Russia 125373. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Dmitry M Rodov, Zastavskaya St. 32A, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Zastavskaya St. 15-B, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Raketnyy Bul'var 15, Moscow, Russia 129164; and 16 Raketnyy Bul'var, Moscow, Russia 129164. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Dmitry Shegurov, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Dmitriy Shegurov, 53 Sherbakovskaya Street, Building 3, Office 509, 105318 Moscow, Russia; and 26 General Belov Str, Office 1010, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 1010, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 General Belov St Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 General Belov Str, Office 19, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 19, Moscow, Russia 115583. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
DMT Electronics, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —DMT Electronics, JSC; —DMT Elektroniks AO; —Joint Stock Company DMT Electronics; and —ZAO DMT Elektroniks. Panfilovskiy Prospekt, 10, FL 3 Room 430, Zelenograd, Moscow, Russia, 124460; and 527, 10 Panfilovsky, Zelenograd, Moscow, Russia 124060. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Dolgoprudniy Design Bureau of Automatics, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—DKBA JSC;—Dolgoprudny; and—Dolgoprudno Design Bureau of Automation. Lyotnaya Street, Dolgoprudniy, Moskovskaya Oblast, 141700, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Dolgoprudny Research Production Enterprise, OAO (a.k.a. olgoprudnenskoye NPP OAO; a.k.a. Dolgoprudny; a.k.a. Dolgoprudny Research Production Enterprise; a.k.a. Otkrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Doigoprudnenskoe Nauchno Proizvodstvennoe Predpriyatie; a.k.a. OAO 'Dolgoprudny Research Production Enterprise') Address: 1 Pl. Sobina, Dolgoprudny, Moskovskaya obl. 141700, Russia. Alt Address: Proshchad Sobina 1, Dolgoprudny 141700, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 55612, 9/17/14.
Dolphin Alabuga LLC, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —OOO Dolphin Alabuga; and —Delfin Alabuga LLC. SEZ Alabuga, Yelabuga, Tatarstan, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g)3, 746.8(a)(3), and 744.2l(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Druzhba, AO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo 'Druzhba'; and —Druzhba. Rogozinino, Moscow 143397, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
EFO Company Limited Liability Company, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —OOO EFO; —EFO Ltd; and —EFO LLC. Room 9N, 9 Mendeleevskaya Street, Letter V, Apartment 219, Saint Petersburg, 194044, Russia; and 21 Politechnicheskaya Street, Saint Petersburg, 192019 Russia; and 15A Novolitovskaya Street, Office 441, Saint Petersburg, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
EKB-Neva, a.k.a., the following one alias: —OOO EKB-Neva. 8 Kronshtadtskaya Street, Litera A, Office 6, Saint Petersburg, 198096, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Ekran Scientific Research Institute, FSUE, a.k.a., the following one alias:—FGUP Ekran Kirov Avenue 24, Samara 443022, Russia; and Krzhizhanovskogo Street 20/30, Moscow, 117218, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 94968, 12/27/16.
Elara, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Joint Stock Company Scientific and Production Complex Elara named after G.A. Illienko. 40 Moskovsky Avenue, Chuvash Republic, 428017; and 7 Obraztsova Street, Moscow, Russia, 428020. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial; Case-by-case basis for items for U.S. Government supported use in the International Space Station (ISS) | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Electronic Computing and Information Systems (ELVIS), a.k.a. the following two aliases:—Joint Stock Company Research and Development Center ELVEES; and—Scientific Production Center Elvis. Thoroughfare No. 4922, House 4, Building 2, Zelenograd, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Electronic Computing Technology Scientific-Research Center, a.k.a., the following one alias:—NICEVEY. 125 Varshavskoye Highway, Moscow, 117587, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Electrosignal JSC, Electrosignalnaya Street, Voronezh, Voronezhskaya Oblast, 394026, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Electrotekhnika LLC, 4 Savelkinskiy Dr., Suite 511-512, Zelenograd, Russia 124482; and 4 Yunost Square, NPZ, Suite 1-7, Zelenograd, Russia 124482; and 4 Yunost Square, NPZ, Apt. 1-7, Zelenograd, Russia 124482. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Elektrokom VPK, a.k.a. the following one alias: —Electrocom VPK. 99 Prosveshcheniya Avenue, Letter A, Room 180N, Office 1, Saint Petersburg, 195299, Russia; and Building 2, 11 Kasatkina St., Moscow, 129301, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Elena Kuznetsova, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Yelena Vladimirovna Kuznetsova, 9 Lipovaya alleya, St. Petersburg, Russia 197183; and Zastavskaya St. 32A, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Zastavskaya St. 15-B, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Raketnyy Bul'var 15, Moscow, Russia 129164; and 16 Raketnyy Bul'var, Moscow, Russia 129164. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Elizaveta Krapivina, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Yelizaveta Krapivina, Pr. Yuria Gagarina 2, Office 801, St. Petersburg, Russia 196105. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
ELPROM, Marshala Govorova Str. 40, Lit. A, Office 34, St. Petersburg 198095, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
ElTom Research and Production Company, a.k.a., the following one alias:—NPP ElTom Garshin Street 11, Tomilino, Lyuberetsky, Moscow, 140070, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 94968, 12/27/16.
EMS Expert LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias: —OOO EMS-Ekspert. 39 Gorodskoi Lane, Office 1, Tula, Tulskaya Oblast, 300012, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Engineering Center Ltd., a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Certified Engineering Center, Ltd.;—LCEC; and—EC. 4 Gabrichevsky Street, Room 124, Moscow, Russia, 125367; and 43 Volokolamskoe Highway, Room 121, Moscow, Russia, 125424. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Engineering Center Moselectronproekt, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Moselectronproekt (JSC); and—MosEP JSC. 12 Kosmonavta Volkova St., Room 22, Moscow, 127299, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22.
Etalon Scientific and Production Association, a.k.a., the following one alias:—NPO Etalon. 3 Tsentralny Proezd, Dobryanka, Perm Territory, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22.
ETC Electronics, 14 Dorogobuzhskaya, Building 40, Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Evgeni Viktorovich Egorov, 4 Savelkinskiy Dr., Suite 511-512, Zelenograd, Russia 124482. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Evgeny Krayushin, Building 41, 3 Zheleznodorozhniy Lane, Dmitrov, Moscow, Russia; and 9 Melitopolskaya ul., Str. 3, Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22.
Evro Polis Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Evro Polis, OOO; and—Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu Evro Polis. d. 1A pom. 9.1A, Shosse Ilinskoe, Krasnogorsk, Krasnogorski Raion, Moskovskaya Obl. 143409, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 6952, 2/16/18.
Far-East Factory Zvezda, a.k.a., the following one alias:—AO FEP Zvezda. 1 Stepan Lebedev St., Bolshoy Kamen, Primorsky krai, 692801, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22.
Far Eastern Shipbuilding and Ship Repair Center, a.k.a., the following one alias:—DTSSS, AO. 72 Svetlanskaya Street, Vladivostok, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
FASTAIR, a.k.a., the following five aliases:—LLC Fastair International;—Fast Air International;—Fast Air;—OOO Fasteir Interneshnl; and—OOO Fasteir. 121471, 14, Ryabinovaya Street, Moscow Russia; and 121471, 14, Rainovaya Street, Office 511, Moscow, Russia; and Rabinovaya Street, 14, Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
FAU 'Glavgosekspertiza Rossii', a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Federal Autonomous Institution 'Main Directorate of State Examination';—General Board of State Expert Review; and—Glavgosekspertiza. Furkasovskiy Lane, building 6, Moscow 101000, Russia. (See alternate address under Crimea region of Ukraine). | For all items subject to the EAR (see § 744.11 of the EAR), apart from items that are related to transactions that are authorized by the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control pursuant to General License No. 11 of December 20, 2016. Russia does not include the “Crimea region of Ukraine,” as that term is defined in section 8(d) of E.O. 13685 | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 82 FR 2887, 1/10/17.
Federal Autonomous Institution Central Institute of Engine-Building N.A. P.I. Baranov, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Central Institute of Aviation Motors; and, —CAIM. 2 Aviation Motoes Street, Moscow, 111116, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Federal Center for Dual-Use Technology (FTsDT) Soyuz, a.k.a., the following one alias:—FSUE FCDT Soyuz. 42 Academician Zhukov St., Dzerzhinsky, 140090, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22.
Federal Government Budget Institution State Institute for Experimental Military Medicine, a.k.a. the following seven aliases: —Federalnoe Gosudarstvennoe Byudzhetnoe Uchrezhdenie Gosudarstvenny Nauchno—Issledovatelski Ispytatelny Institut Voennoi Meditsiny Ministerstva Oborony Rossiskoi Federatsii; —Gosudarstvenny Nauchno-Issledovatelski Ispytatelny Institut Voennoi Meditsiny; —State Scientific Research and Testing Institute of Military Medicine; —FGBU GNIII VM MO RF; —GNII VM; —State Institute for Experimental Military Medicine; and —State Research Experimental Institute of Military Medicine. 4 Lesoparkovaya Street, Saint Petersburg, 195043, Russia; and 15 Teatralnaya Alley, Strelna Settlement, Saint Petersburg, 198515, Russia; and 100 Borisenko Street, Vladivostok, Primorsky Region, 650080, Russia; and 100 Borisenko Street, Building D, Vladivostok, Primorsky Region, 650080, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Federal Research Center Boreskov Institute of Catalysis, pr. Lavrentieva 5, Novosibirsk 630090, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Federal Security Service (FSB), a.k.a., the following one alias:—Federalnaya Sluzhba Bezopasnosti. Ulitsa Kuznetskiy Most, Dom 22, Moscow 107031, Russia; and Lubyanskaya Ploschad, Dom 2, Moscow 107031, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR, apart from items that are related to transactions that are authorized by the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control pursuant to General License No. 1B of March 2, 2021. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 82 FR 724, 1/4/17. 82 FR 18219, 4/18/17. 86 FR 37903, 7/19/21. 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Federal Service for Military-Technical Cooperation, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Federalnaya Sluzhba po Voenno-Tekhnicheskomu Sotrudnishestvu; —FSMTC;—FSVTS; and—FSVTS Rossii. 18/1 Ovchinnikovskaya Embankment, Moscow, 115035, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Federal State Autonomous Institution Military Innovative Technopolis Era, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—ERA Military Innovation Technopolis; and—FGAU VIT ERA. Pionerskiy Prospekt, 41 Anapa Krasnodar Krai 353456, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 37903, 7/19/21.
Federal State Autonomous Scientific Establishment Scientific Research Institute Specialized Security Computing Devices and Automation, a.k.a., the following one alias:—FGANU NII Specvuzavtomatika. Rostov-On-Don, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 37903, 7/19/21.
Federal State Budgetary Enterprise of the Administration of the President of Russia, 1-ya Reysovaya Street, 1, Moscow 119027, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Federal State Budgetary Enterprise Special Flight Unit Rossiya of the Administration of the President of Russia, 1-ya Reysovaya Street, 1, Moscow 119027, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Federal State Budgetary Institute A.V. Zhirmunskiy National Scientific Research Center of Marine Biology, Far East Branch, Russian Academy of Sciences, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —Federalnoe Gosudarstvennoe Byudzhetnoe Uchrezhdenie Nauki Natsionalny Nauchny Tsentr Morskoi Biologii Im. A.V. Zhirmunskogo Dalnevostochnogo Otdeleniya Rossiskoi Akademii Nauk; —A.V. Zhirmunsky Institute of Marine Biology of the Far Eastern Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences; —A.V. Shirmunsky National Scientific Center of Marine Biology; —FBU NNTsMB DVO RAN; —NSCMB FEB RAS; and —NNTsMB DVO RAN. 17 Palchevskogo Street, Vladivostok, Primorsky Region, 690041, Russia; and 1 Chugunova Street, Vityaz Settlement, Khasanski Region, Primorsky Region, 692707, Russia; and 25 Akademika Kasyanova Street, Russian Island, Vladivostok, Primorsky Region, 690992, Russia; and Building 3, Nakhodka, Primorsky Region, 692952, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Federal State Budgetary Institution National Research Center Institute n.a. N.E. Zhukovsky, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Zhukovsky National Research Institute. 7 Viktorenko Street, Moscow, 125319, Russia, and, 1 Zhukovskogo Street, Zhukovsky, Moscow Oblast, 140180, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22
Federal State Budgetary Institution of Science Federal Research Center Pushchino Scientific Center for Biology, Russian Academy of Sciences, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Federal Research Center Pushchino Scientific Center for Biological Research of the Russian Academy of Sciences; —FRC PSCBI RAS; —FITS PNTSBI RAN, FGBU; and —FITS PNTSBI RAN. 3 Nauki Avenue, Pushchino, Moscow Region, 142290, Russia; and 5 Nauki Avenue, Pushchino, Moscow Region, 142290, Russia; and 3 Institutskaya Street, Pushchino, Moscow Region, 142290, Russia; and 7 Institutskaya Street, Pushchino, Moscow Region, 142290, Russia; and 2 Institutskaya Street, Pushchino, Moscow Region, 142290, Russia; and 2 Institutskaya Street, Building 2, Pushchino, Moscow Region, 142290, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Federal State Budgetary Institution of Science Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry named after Academicians M.M. Shemyakin and Yu.A. Ovchinnikov, Russian Academy of Sciences, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —Federalnoe Gosudarstvennoe Byudzhetnoe Uchrezhdenie Nauki Institut Bioorganicheskoi Khimii Im. Akademikov M.M. Shemyakina I Yu.A. Ovchinnikova Rossiskoi Akademii Nauk; —Shemyakin-Ovchinnikov Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry; —IBCh RAN; —IBCh RAS; —IBKh RAN; and —IBKh RAS. 16/10 Miklukho-Maklaya Street, Moscow, 117997, Russia; and 6 Nauki Avenue, Pushchino, Moscow Region, 142290, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Federal State Budgetary Institution of Science Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology, Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —Federalnoe Gosudarstvennoe Byudzhetnoe Uchrezhdenie Nauki Institut Molekulyarnoi I Kletochnoi Biologii Sibirskogo Otdeleniya Rossiskoi Akademii Nauk; —Institute of Cell Biophysics of the Russian Academy of Sciences; —Institute of Cell Biophysics; —Institute of Molecular and Cellular Biology SB RAS; —IMCB SB RAS; and —IMCB SO RAN. 8/2 Akademika Lavrenteva Avenue, Novosibirsk, Novosibirsk Region, 630090, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Federal State Budgetary Institution of Science P.I. K.A. Valiev RAS of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of Russia, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —FTIAN IM K.A. Valiev RAS; —FTI RAS; and —FTIAN. 34 Nakhimovski Prospekt, Moscow, 117218, Russia; and 36 Nakhimovsky Prospekt, Moscow, 117218, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Federal State Budgetary Scientific Institution Research and Production Complex Technology Center, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Federalnoe Gosudarstvennoe Byudzhetnoe Nauchnoe Uchrezhdenie Nauchno-Proizvodstvenny Kompleks Tekhnologicheskiy Tsentr —NPK Technological Center;—NPKTS; —Scientific Manufacturing Complex Technological Center; and—SMC Technological Center. 1 Shokina Square, Building 7, Office 7237, Zelenograd, Moscow, 124498, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) This license requirement may be overcome by License Exception GOV under § 740.11(b)(2) and (e) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99 and for items for U.S. Government supported use in the International Space Station (ISS), which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Federal State Enterprise Aleksinsky Chemical Plant, a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —Federalnoe Kazennoe Predpriyatie Aleksinski Khimicheski Kombinat; —Aleksinskii Khimicheskii Kombinat; —Aleksinsky Chemical Plant; —Aleksinsky Chemical Combine; —Aleksinsky Chemical; —FKP AKHK; and —AKHK. 21 Pobedy Square, Aleksin, Tula Region, 301361, Russia; and 23 Truda Avenue, Kotovsk, Tambov Region, 393192, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Federal State Enterprise Kamenksy Combine, a.k.a. the following five aliases: —Federalnoe Kazennoe Predpriyatie Kombinat Kamenski; —FKP Kombinat Kamenski; —Kombinat Kamenskii; —Federal State Enterprise Kamensky Plant; and —Kamensky Plant. 8 Saprygina Street, Kamensk-Shakhtinski, Rostov Region, 347801, Russia; and 1 Park Kultury Street, Kamensk-Shakhtinski, Rostov Region, 347810, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Federal State Enterprise Kazan State Gunpowder Plant, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —Federalnoe Kazennoe Predpriyatie Kazanski Gosudarstvenny Kazenny Porokhovoi Zavod; —FKP Kazanski Gosudarstvenny Kazenny Porokhovoi Zavod; —FKP KGKPZ; —Kazan Gunpowder Plant; —FSE Kazan State Powder Plant; and —Kazan Powder Plant. 14 Pervogo Maya Street, Kazan, Republic of Tatarstan, 420032, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Federal State Enterprise Perm Powder Plant, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Federalnoe Kazennoe Predpriyatie Permski Porokhovoi Zavod; —Permski Porokhovoi Zavod; —Perm Powder Plant; and —Perm Gunpowder Mill. 11 Galperina Street, Perm, Perm Region, 614101, Russia; and 6 Avtozavodskaya Street, Perm, Perm Region, 614101, Russia; and 1 Lsvinskaya Street, Perm, Perm Region, 614113, Russia; and 6 Marshala Rybalko Street, Office 19, Perm, Perm Region, 614101, Russia; and 3 Oruzheiny Lane, Building 1, Moscow, Russia; and sad El'niki, Sylva Settlement, Perm Region, 614503, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Federal State Institution Federal Scientific Center Scientific Research Institute for System Analysis of the Russian Academy of Sciences, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Federalnoe Gosudarstvennoe Uchrezhdenie Federalnyy Nauchnyy Tsentr Nauchno-Issledovatelskiy Institut Sistemnykh Issledovaniy Rossiyskoy Akademii Nauk;—FGU FNTS NIISI RAN;—FSI FSC SRISA RAS; and—Scientific Research Institute of System Analysis, Russian Academy of Sciences. 36 Nakhimovskiy Avenue, Building 1, Moscow, 117218, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Federal State Unitary Enterprise All-Russian Research Institute of Physical, Technical and Radio Engineering Measurements, a.k.a., the following one alias: VNIIFTRI. Mendeleevo Village, Mendeleevo, Moscow Oblast, 141570, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Federal State Unitary Enterprise Central Research Institute of Structural Materials Prometheus named after I.V. Gorynina, a.k.a., the following nine aliases: —Central Research Institute of Structural Materials Prometey; —CRISM Prometey; —Federal State Unitary Enterprise Central Research of Structural Materials Prometey named by I.V. Gorynin of National Research Center Kurchatov Institute; —Federalnoe Gosudarstvennoe Unitarnoe Predpriyatie Tsentralny Nauchno-Issledovatelski Institut Konstruktsionnykh Materialov Prometei Imeni I.V. Gorynina Natsionalnogo Issledovatelskogo Tsentra Kurchatovski Institut; —FSUE CRISM Prometey; —NITS Kurchatovskiy Institut—TSNII KM Prometey; —NRC Kurchatov Institute—Central Research Institute of KM Prometheus; —NRC Kurchatov Institute CRISM Prometey; and —Prometheus. 49 Shpalernaya Street, Saint Petersburg, 191015, Russia; and 120th Gatchina Division, 12, Gatchina, Leningrad Region, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Federal State Unitary Enterprise Central Scientific Research Institute of Chemistry and Mechanics, a.k.a., the following ten aliases: —CNIIHM; —Federalnoe Gosudarstvennoe Unitarnoe Predpriyatie Tsentralny Nauchno-Issledovatelski Institut Khimii I Mekhaniki; —FGUP CNIIXM; —FGUP TSNIIKHM; —FSUE CNIIHM; —FSUE TSNIIKHM; —GNTS RF FGUP TSNIIKHM; —State Research Center of the Russian Federation FGUP Central Scientific Research Institute of Chemistry and Mechanics; —Tsentralny Naucho-Issledovatelsky Institut Khimii I Mekhaniki, FGUP; and —TSNIIKHM. 16A, Nagatinskaya Street, Moscow, 115487, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Federal State Unitary Enterprise Dukhov Automatics Research Institute (VNIIA), 22, Sushchevskaya UI, Moscow 127055RU. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Federal State Unitary Enterprise Rostov-On-Don Research Institute of Radio Communications, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —FGUP RNIIRS; —FGUP Rostovski-Na-Donu Nauchno-Issledovatelski Institut Radiosvyazi; —FSUE Rostov-On-Don Scientific Research Institute of Radio Communications; —Nansena FGUP RNIIRS; and —RNIIRS. 130 Nansena Street, Rostov-on-Don, Rostov Oblast, 344038, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Federal State Unitary Enterprise Scientific Center Signal, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —Federalnoe Gosudarstvennoe Unitarnoe Predpriyatie “Nauchny Tsentr “Signal”. —FSUE Scientific Center Signal; —FGUP NTs Signal; —NTs Signal; —Scientific Center Signal; and —SC Signal. 8 Bolshaya Olenya Street, Moscow, 107014, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Federal State Unitary Enterprise Scientific Production Enterprise “GAMMA”, Ul. Profsoyuznaya d. 78 str. 4, Moscow, 117393, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 48534, 9/26/18.
Federal State Unitary Enterprise State Research and Production Enterprise Bazalt, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Federal State Unitary Enterprise, State Research and Production Enterprise Bazalt; and—Fsue Srpe Bazalt; and—State Research and Production Enterprise Bazalt. 32 Velyaminovskaya, Moscow 105318, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 42455, 7/22/14.
Federal State Unitary Enterprise State Scientific-Research Institute for Aviation Systems, a.k.a., the following one alias: —GosNIIAS. 7 Viktorenko Street, Moscow, 125167, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Federal Technical Regulation and Metrology Agency, a.k.a., the following alias: —Rosstandart. 10 Naberezhnaya Presnenskaya, Street 2, Floor 7, Moscow, 123112, Russia; and 10 Presnenskaya Embankment, Building 2 (IQ Block), Moscow, 123112, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Femteco, 13 3-ya Khoroshevskaya Street, Moscow, Russia 123298; and 3298 G. Moskva, Ul. 3-ya Khoroshevskaya, D. 13, K. Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR | See §§ 744.2(d), 744.3(d), and 744.4(d) of this part | 86 FR 12531, 3/4/21.
Fifth Element LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias: —OOO Pyaty Element. 4 Gromova Street, Office 331, St. Petersburg, 195196, Russia; and Tallinskaya Street, Litera O, Building 7, Saint Petersburg, 195196, Russia; and 5 2-Ya Entuziastov Street, Korpus 5, Moscow, 111024, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Fincor LLC, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —OOO Fincor; and —SMU-5 OOO. 24 10 Let Oktyabrya Street, Apartment 62, Izhevsk, Republic of Udmurtskaya, 426011, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Finko LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias: —OOO Finko. 24 10 Let Oktyabrya Street, Apartment 62, Izhevsk, Republic of Udmurtskaya, 426011, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
FKU Uprdor 'Taman', a.k.a., the following one alias:—Federal State Institution Management of Federal Roads 'Taman'. 3 Revolution Avenue, Anapa, Krasnodar 353440, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
Foreign Intelligence Service (SVR), Yasenevo 11 Kolpachny, Moscow, 0101000. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Foreign Trade Association Mashpriborintorg, a.k.a., the following one alias:—FTA Mashpriborintorg JSC. 3 Sherbakovskaya St., Moscow, 105318, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22.
Forensic Center of Nizhniy Novgorod Region Main Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Affairs, Gorkiy Street, 71, Nizhniy Novgorod 603950, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Forss Technology Ltd., a.k.a., the following four aliases:—FT Ltd;—Forss Marine;—OOO Smart Marin; and—OOO Forss Teknologii. 51 Magnitogorskaya Street, D. Letter E Office 210, Saint Petersburg, Russia, 195027; and 44 Bronnitskaya Street, Letter A, Room 1H, Saint Petersburg, Russia, 190013. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Forward Electronics, LLC, 86 N Prospect Obukhovskoy Oborony, St. Petersburg, Russia 190000; and Kolomyazhsky Prospect 18, Office 4085 BC “North House,” St. Petersburg, Russia 197348. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
FSUE FNPC Nizhegorodsky Scientific Research Institute of Radiotechnics (NNIIRT), Shaposhnikov Street 5, Nizhny Novgorod, 603950, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 94968, 12/27/16.
FSUE Rosmorport Far Eastern Basin Branch, Nizhneportovaya Street 3 Primorskiy Territory, Vladivostok 690003, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial. See § 746.8(b) | 87 FR 76926, 12/16/22.
Gaz-Oil, OOO (f.k.a., Zakrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Gaz Oil), a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gaz-Oil; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gaz-Oil'. d.10 B ul.Nametkina, Moscow 117420, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazmash, AO (f.k.a., Dochernee Otkrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Gazmash Otkrytogo Aktsionernogo Obshchestva Gazprom), a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo 'Gazmash'; and—Gazmash. d. 54 korp. 1 litera A pomeshch prospekt Primorski, St. Petersburg 197374, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
Gazprom Dobycha Irkutsk, OOO (f.k.a., Otkrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Irkutskgazprom), a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Dobycha Irkutsk; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Dobycha Irkutsk'. d.14 ul.Nizhnyaya Naberezhnaya, Irkutsk, Irkutskaya obl 664011, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Dobycha Krasnodar, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Dobycha Krasnodar; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Dobycha Krasnodar'. d.53 ul.Shosse Neftyanikov, Krasnodar, Krasnodarski krai 350051, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Dobycha Kuznetsk, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Dobycha Kuznetsk; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Dobycha Kuznetsk'. d.4 prospekt Oktyabrski, Kemerovo, Kemerovskaya obl 650066, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Dobycha Nadym, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Dobycha Nadym; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Dobycha Nadym'. d.1 ul.Zvereva, Nadym, Yamalo-Nenetski a.o. 629730, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Dobycha Noyabrsk, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Dobycha Noyabrsk; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Dobycha Noyabrsk'. d.20 ul. Respubliki, Noyabrsk, Yamalo-Nenetski a.o. 629802, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Dobycha Urengoi, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Dobycha Urengoy; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Dobycha Urengoi'. d.8 ul.Zheleznodorozhnaya, Novy Urengoi, Yamalo-Nenetski a.o. 629307, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Dobycha Yamburg, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Dobycha Yamburg; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Dobycha Yamburg'. d.9 ul. Geologorazvedchikov, Novy Urengoi, Yamalo-Nenetski a.o 629306, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Energo, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Energo; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Energo'. 8 Korp. 1 ul.Stroitelei, Moscow 117939, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Flot, OOO (f.k.a., Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu Gazflot), a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Flot; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Flot'. d. 12 A ul.Nametkina, Moscow 117420, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24. .
Gazprom Gaznadzor, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Gaznadzor; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Gaznadzor'. 41 str. 1 prospekt Vernadskogo, Moscow 119415, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24. .
Gazprom Gazobezopasnost, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Gazobezopasnost; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Gazobezopasnost'. d. 8 korp. 1 ul.Stroitelei, Moscow 119311, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Geologorazvedka, OOO (f.k.a., Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu Gazprom Dobycha Krasnoyarsk), a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Geologorazvedka; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Geologorazvedka'. d.70 ul.Gertsena, Tyumen, Tyumenskaya obl. 625000, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Inform, OOO (f.k.a., Zakrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Informgazinvest), a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Inform; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Inform'. d. 13 str. 3 ul.Bolshaya Cheremushkinskaya, Moscow 117447, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Invest, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Invest; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Invest'. d. 6 litera D ul.Startovaya, St. Petersburg 196210, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Kapital, OOO (f.k.a., Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu Kap Infin), a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Kapital; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Kapital'. Sosenskoe Pos, Pos. Gazoprovod, D. 101 Korp. 9, Moscow 142770, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Komplektatsiya, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Komplektatsiya; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Komplektatsiya'. 8 Korp. 1 ul.Stroitelei, Moscow 119991, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Mezhregiongaz, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Mezhregiongaz; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Mezhregiongaz'. d. Dom 24 korp. Liter A nab.Admirala Lazareva, St. Petersburg 197110, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Neft (a.k.a. Gazprom Neft OAO; a.k.a. JSC Gazprom Neft; a.k.a. Open Joint-Stock Company Gazprom Neft; f.k.a. Sibirskaya Neftyanaya Kompaniya OAO) Address: Let. A. Galernaya, 5, ul, St. Petersburg 190000, Russia Alt Address: Ul. Pochtamtskaya, 3-5, St. Petersburg 190000, Russia Alt Address: 3-5 Pochtamtskaya St., St. Petersburg 190000, Russia Alt Address: 125 A. Profsoyuznaya Street, Moscow 117647, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 79 FR 55612, 9/17/14. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Neft Shelf, the following one alias:—Sevmorneftegaz. 8 Lesteva Street, Moscow, 115162, Russia; and 31 I.M. V.I. Lenina Street, Naryan-Mar, Nenetski Autonomous District 166000, Russia; and 19 Karla Marksa, Murmansk, Murmanskaya Oblast, 183025, Russia; and 38/4 Prospect Nevski, Saint Petersburg, 191036, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Gazprom, OAO (a.k.a. Open Joint Stock Company Gazprom; a.k.a. OAO Gazprom; a.k.a. Gazprom) Address: 16 Nametkina St., Moscow, Russia GSP-7, 117997, Russia Alt Address: 16 Nametkina ul., Moscow 117991, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 79 FR 55612, 9/17/14. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Pererabotka, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Pererabotka; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Pererabotka'. d.16 ul.Ostrovskogo, Surgut, Khanty-Mansiski Avtonomny okrug—Yugra a.o. 628417, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Personal, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Personal; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Personal'. 16, Gsp-7 ul.Nametkina, Moscow 117997, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Promgaz, AO (f.k.a., Otkrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Gazprom Promgaz), a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo 'Gazprom Promgaz' and —Gazprom Promgaz. d. 6 ul.Nametkina, Moscow 117420, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Russkaya, OOO (f.k.a., Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu Kovyktneftegaz), a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Russkaya; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Russkaya'. 3 korp.2 ul.Varshavskaya, St. Petersburg 196128, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Sotsinvest, OOO (f.k.a., Gazprominvestarena OOO), a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Sotsinvest; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Sotsinvest'. d. 20 litera A nab.Aptekarskaya, St. Petersburg 197022, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Svyaz, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Svyaz; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Svyaz'. d.16 ul.Nametkina, Moscow 117997, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Telekom, OOO (f.k.a., Zakrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Gaztelekom), a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Telecom; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Telekom'. d. 62 str. 2 shosse Starokaluzhskoe, Moscow 117630, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Transgaz Kazan, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Transgaz Kazan; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Transgaz Kazan'. d.41 ul.Adelya Kutuya, Kazan, Tatarstan resp 420073, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Transgaz Krasnodar, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Transgaz Krasnodar; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Transgaz Krasnodar'. d.36 ul.Im Dzerzhinskogo, Krasnodar, Krasnodarski krai 350051, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Transgaz Makhachkala, OOO (f.k.a., Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu Gazprom Transgaz Makhachkala), a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Transgaz Makhachkala; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Transgaz Makhachkala'. ul.O.Bulacha, Makhachkala, Dagestan resp. 367030, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Transgaz Nizhni Novgorod, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Transgaz Nizhny Novgorod; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Transgaz Nizhni Novgorod'. d.11 ul.Zvezdinka, Nizhni Novgorod, Nizhegorodskaya obl. 603950, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Transgaz Samara, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Transgaz Samara; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Transgaz Samara'. d. 106 A str. 1 ul.Novo-Sadovaya, Samara, Samarskaya obl. 443068, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Transgaz Sankt-Peterburg, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Transgaz Saint Petersburg; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Transgaz Sankt-Peterburg'. 3 korp.2 ul.Varshavskaya, St. Petersburg 196128, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Transgaz Saratov, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Transgaz Saratov; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Transgaz Saratov'. d.118 A prospekt Im 50 Let Oktyabrya, Saratov, Saratovskaya obl. 410052, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Transgaz Stavropol, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Transgaz Stavropol; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Transgaz Stavropol'. d.6 prospekt Oktyabrskoi Revolyutsii, Stavropol, Stavropolski krai 355000, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Transgaz Surgut, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Transgaz Surgut; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Transgaz Surgut'. d.1 ul.Universitetskaya, Surgut, Khanty-Mansiski Avtonomny okrug—Yugra a.o. 628406, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Transgaz Tomsk, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Transgaz Tomsk; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Transgaz Tomsk'. d.9 prospekt Frunze, Tomsk, Tomskaya obl. 634029, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Transgaz Ufa, OOO (f.k.a., Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu Bashtransgaz Otkrytogo Aktsionernogo Obshchestva Gazprom), a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Transgaz Ufa; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Transgaz Ufa'. 59 ul.Rikharda Zorge, Ufa, Bashkortostan resp. 450054, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Transgaz Ukhta, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Transgaz Ukhta; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Transgaz Ukhta'. d.39/2 prospekt Lenina, Ukhta, Komi resp 169312, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Transgaz Volgograd, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Transgaz Volgograd; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Transgaz Volgograd'. 58 ul.Raboche-Krestyanskaya, Volgograd, Volgogradskaya obl. 400074, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Transgaz Yugorsk, OOO (f.k.a., Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu Tyumentransgaz), a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Transgaz Yugorsk; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Transgaz Yugorsk'. d.15 ul.Mira, Yugorsk, Khanty-Mansiski Avtonomny okrug, Yugra a.o. 628260, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Tsentrremont, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Tsentrremont; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Gazprom Tsentrremont'. d.1 ul.Moskovskaya, Shchelkovo, Moskovskaya obl 141112, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Gazprom Vniigaz, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Gazprom Vniigaz; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Nauchno-Issledovatelski Institut Prirodnykh Gazov I Gazovykh Tekhnologi—Gazprom Vniigaz'. P Razvilka, Leninski Raion, Moskovskaya obl. 142717, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
GFK Logistics LLC, a.k.a. the following one alias: —OOO Dzhiefkei Logistiks. Building 32, Kirovogradskaya Street, Moscow, 117519, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Grant Instrument, Tsvetochaya St. 16, Building 1, Room 425, St. Petersburg, 196006, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
Hartis DV LLC, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Trade House Alkopanel Limited Liability Company; and —OOO Khartis DV. 35 Svobody Street, Building 5, Floor 1, Kom. 4, Moscow, 125362, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 76129, 11/6/23.
Hermann Derkach, Pr. Yuria Gagarina 2, Office 801, St. Petersburg, Russia 196105. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Huawei Cloud Russia, Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei OpenLab Moscow, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Huawei Moscow OpenLab Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Russia, Business-Park “Krylatsky Hills”, 17 bldg. 2, Krylatskaya Str., Moscow 121614, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
ID Solution LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias: —OOO Aidi Solyushn. Annino Plaza Business Center, 60B Dorozhnaya Street, Room 421, Moscow, 117405, Russia; and 2 Donbasskaya Street, Vidnoe, Moscow Oblast, 142700, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 76129, 11/6/23.
IFDK, ZAO, a.k.a., the following six aliases:—Closed Joint Stock Company 'IFD Kapital';—IFD Kapital;—IFD Kapital Group;—IFD-Capital;—IFD-Kapital; and—Zakrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo 'IFD Kapital' (f.k.a., Zakrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo IFD Karital) 6 naberezhnaya, Krasnopresnenskaya, Moscow 123100, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 28408, 6/22/17.
Igor Samusev, Ulitsa Artyukhina 6B, 106, Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Ilias Kharesovich Sabirov, Solovjinaya Roscha Str 9-1-86, Moscow, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
Ilyushin Aviation Complex Branch: Myasishcheva Experimental Mechanical Engineering Plant, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Myasishcheva EMZ. 7 Narkomvod Street, Zhukovsky, Moscow Oblast, 140180, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Incorporated Electronics Systems, 9 Lipovaya alleya, St. Petersburg, Russia 197183; and 9A Lipovaya alleya, St. Petersburg, Russia 197183. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Ineko LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—OOO Ineko. Building 41, 3 Zheleznodorozhniy Lane, Dmitrov, Moscow, Russia; and 9 Melitopolskaya ul., Str. 3, Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22.
Inelso LLC, 3 Gelsingforsskaya Street, Letter Z, Room 412, Sampsonievsk Municipal Okrug, Saint Petersburg, 194044, Russia; and Serpukhov Dvor Business Center, 2Y Roshchinskiy Proyezd, 8, Moscow, 115419, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Informakustika JSC, 22A Polytechnic St., St. Petersburg, 194021, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22.
Informtest Firm Limited Liability Company, a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —OOO Firma Informtest; —Firm Informtest; —Firma Informtest; —Holding Informtest; —Informtest Firm LLC; —InformTest Holdings; and —InformTest Ltd. 4 Savelkinsky Way, Zelenograd, Moscow, 124482, Russia; and 4 Savelkinsky Passage, 6th Floor, Premises XIV, Room 8, Zelenograd, Moscow, 124482, Russia; and Passage 4806, Building 6, Room 70, Zelenograd, Moscow, 124460, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Innovation and Technologies LLC, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Intekh; and —INTEKH OOO. D. 83 K. 3 OFIS 516, Ul. Savushkina, St. Petersburg 197374 Russia; and Mira prospect, 2-7 601901 Kovrov, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b), and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 12171, 2/27/23.
Instar Lodzhistiks, OOO, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Instar Logistics. d. 20 str., 7 ofis 102V, ul. Elektrozavodskaya, Moscow 1072023, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 6952, 2/16/18.
Institut Stroiproekt, AO, a.k.a., the following six aliases:—Aktsionernoe Obshcestvo Institut Stroiproekt;—AO Institut Stroiproekt;—AO Institute Stroyproekt (f.k.a., Institut Stroiproekt Zakrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo);—Institute Stroyproect;—Stroyproekt; and—Stroyproekt Engineering Group D. 13 Korp. 2 LiteraA Prospekt Dunaiski, St. Petersburg 196158, Russia; and 13/2 Dunaisky Prospect, St. Petersburg 196158, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 94968, 12/27/16.
Institute of High Energy Physics, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—IHEP; and—Kurchatovskiy Institute ITEF. 1/1 Pobeda St., Science Square, Protvino Moskovskaya Oblast, 142281, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22.
Institute of Marine Technology Problems Far East Branch Russian Academy of Sciences, a.k.a., the following one alias:—IPMT FEB RAS. 5A Sukhanov Street, Vladivostok, 690091, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Institute of Physics Named After P.N. Lebedev of the Russian Academy of Sciences, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Lebedev Physical Institute;—LPI RAS;—Lebedev Physical Institute; and—FIAN. 53 Leninsky Prospekt, Moscow, 119991, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Institute of Solid-State Physics of the Russian Academy of Sciences, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —ISSP; —Institute of Solid-State Physics of the Academy of Sciences SSSR; and —Federal State Budgetary Institution of Science Institute of Solid-State Physics N.A. Yu. A. Osipyan of the Russian Academy of Sciences. 2 Akademika Osipyana Street, Chernogolovka, Moscow Region, 142432, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Institute of Theoretical and Experimental Physics, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—ITEP;—ITEF; and—Kurchatovskiy Institute ITEF. 25 Bolshaya Cheremushkinskaya St., 117218; and 24 Sevastopolskiy Avenue, Moscow, 117186, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22.
Integral SPB, 21 Irinovski Avenue, Building 1, Saint Petersburg, Russia, 195279. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Intekh LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Aspectriym Limited Trade Development. 9 Svyazistov Street, Office 4, Krasnoznamensk, Moscow Oblast, 143090, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Inteltech PJSC, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Information Telecommunications Technology PJSC;—Inteltech; and—Inteltekh. Electrosignalnaya Street, Voronezh, Voronezhskaya Oblast, 394026, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Intercom Ltd., Kalinina Street 13 Saint Petersburg 198099, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial. See § 746.8(b) | 87 FR 76926, 12/16/22.
Interlab, a.k.a., the following one alias:—OOO Interlab. Tikhvinsky Per., 11, Building 2, 127055, Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR | See §§ 744.2(d), 744.3(d), and 744.4(d) of this part | 86 FR 12531, 3/4/21.
International Center for Quantum Optics and Quantum Technologies LLC, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Russian Quantum Center and—RQC. Business-center “Ural,” 100 Novaya Street, Skolkovo, Moscow, 143025, Russia; and 30 Bolshoy Blvd, Bldg 1, Moscow, 121205, Russia; and 100A Novaya Street, Skolkovo, Odintsovsky District, Moscow, 143025, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 13061, 3/8/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Intertech Rus LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Intertek Rus OOO. d. 3 str. 2 pom. 506 kom. 69, ul. Krymski Val Moscow, 119049 Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.2(d), 744.3(d), and 744.4(d) | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Irkut Corporation, Leningradsky Prospect 68, Moscow 125315, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Irkut Research and Production Corporation Public Joint Stock Company, 68 Leningradsky Prospect, Moscow 125315, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Irkutsk Aviation Plant, 3 Novatorov Street, Irkutsk, 664020, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
ISE SO RAN Institute of High-Current Electronics, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Institute of High Current Electronics Siberian Branch Russian Academy of Science—IHCE; and—IHCE SB RAS. 2/3 Prospekt Akeademicheskiy, Tomsk, 634055, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22.
IT-Papillon OOO, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Papillon Information Technologies LLC. 48 Prospekt Makeeva, Miass, Chelyabinskaya Oblast, 4563200, 4563200, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Ivan Komarov, Pr. Yuria Gagarina 2, Office 801, St. Petersburg, Russia 196105. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Ivan Zubarev, 4 Savelkinskiy Dr., Suite 511-512, Zelenograd, Russia 124482. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Izhevsky Mekhanichesky Zavod JSC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Baikal. 8 Promyshlennaya Str., Izhevsk 426063, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15.
Izumrud AO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Izumrud JSC; and —Izumrud OAO. 65 St. Russkaya, Vladivostok, Primorsky Region, 690105, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company 75 Arsenal, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —Open Joint Stock Company 75 Arsenal; —OJSC 75 Arsenal; —JSC 75 Arsenal; —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo 75 Arsenal; —AO 75 Arsenal; and —OAO 75 Arsenal. Moskovskoe Highway, Serpukhov, Moscow Region, 142204, Russia; and 5 Potapovski Lane, Building 4, Moscow, 101000, Russia; and 20 Tverskaya Yamskaya 4-Ya, Building 1, Room 507, Moscow, 125047, Russia; and 2A Karl Marx Street, Room 207, Rzhev, Tver Region, 172389, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company 121 Aviation Repair Plant, a.k.a., the following one alias: —121 ARZ. 10 Pochtovaya Street, Room 203, Stary Gorodok, Odintsovo District, Moscow Oblast, 143079, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Joint Stock Company 123 Aviation Repair Plant, a.k.a., the following one alias: —123 ARZ. Mkr Gorodok, Staraya Russa, Starorussky District, Novgorod Oblast, 175201, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Joint Stock Company 150 Aircraft Repair Plant, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —150 ARZ; —150 ARP; —AO 150 Aviatsionny Remontny Zavod; and —AO 150 ARZ. 4 Garnizonnaya Street, Lyublino, Svetly, Kaliningrad Oblast, 238347, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company 218 Aviation Repair Plant, a.k.a., the following one alias: —218 ARZ. 7a Grigorina Street, Gatchina, Gatchinsky Region, Leningrad Oblast 188307, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Joint Stock Company 356 Aircraft Repair Plant, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —AO 356 ARZ; —JSC 356 ARP; —JSC 356 ARZ; —356 ARZ; and —356 ARZ PAO. Microdistrict Engels-1, Engels, Saratov Region, 413101, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company 360 Aviation Repair Plant, a.k.a., the following one alias: —360 ARZ. 13V Zabaikalsk Street, Ryazan, Ryazan Oblast, 390015, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Joint Stock Company 419 Aircraft Repair Plant, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —JSC 419 Aircraft Repair Plant; —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo 419 Aviatsionny Remontny Zavod; —JSC 419 ARZ; —JSC 419 ARP; and —AO 419 ARZ. 16 Politruka Pasechnika Street, Building 2, Toriki Territory, Saint Petersburg, 198326, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company 502 Military-Technical Property Repair Plant, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —AO 502 ZRVTI; —JSC 502 Military-Technical Property Repair Plant; —JSC 502 ZRVTI; —OAO 502 Zavod po Remontu Voenno-Tekhnicheskogo Imushchestva; —502 ZRVI; and —502 ZRVTI. Noginsk-5 City-Type Village, Noginsk, Moscow Region, 142470, Russia; and Central Microdistrict, Vsevolodov Village, Elektrostal Urban District, Moscow Region, 142405, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company 514 Aviation Repair Plant, a.k.a., the following one alias: —514 ARZ. 121 Chelyuskintsev Street, Rzhev, Tver Oblast, 172383, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Joint Stock Company 766 UPTK. 1 Institutskaya Street, Nakhabino, Krasnogorsk District, Moscow Region, 143432, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Joint Stock Company 810 Aircraft Repair Plant, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —810 ARZ; —810 ARP; —AO 810 Aviatsionny Remontny Zavod; and —JSC 810 ARZ. 1 Vertoletnaya Street, Chita, Transbaikal Territory, 672003, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company A.S. Yakovlev Design Bureau, a.k.a., the following nine aliases: —AO OKB Im. A.S. Yakovleva; —Design Bureau Named After A.S. Yakovlev; —JSC Yakovlev Design Bureau; —JSC A.S. Yakovlev DB; —OKB Imeni A.S. Yakovleva, OAO; —Joint Stock Company Experimental Design Bureau Named After A.S. Yakovlev; —Joint Stock Company OKB Named After A.S. Yakovlev; —OJSC Opytno-Konstruktorskoye Byuro Im. A.S. Yakovleva; and —Yakovlev Design Bureau. 68 Leningradski Avenue, Business Center Aviapark, Moscow, 125315, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Aerocomposit, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Aerocomposit. 47 Leningrad Prospect, Building 2, Moscow, 125167, Russia; and 23B Polikarpova Street, Room 2, Moscow, 125284, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Joint Stock Company Aerokon, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —AO Aerokon; —Aerocon; and —JSC Aerocon. 1 Zhukovskogo Street, Zhukovski, Moscow Region, 140180, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company All Russian Research Institute of Radio Engineering, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —AO Vserossiyskiy Nauchno-Issledovatelskiy Institut Radiotekhniki;—JSC Vserossiyskiy Institute for Scientific Research Radiotekhniki; and—VNIIRT. 22 Bolshaya Pochtovaya Street, Building 8, Moscow, 105082, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company All-Russian Research Institute Signal, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO Vserossiyskiy Nauchno-Issledovatelskiy Institut Signal;—AO VNII Signal;—JSC VNII Signal; and—OJSC All-Russian Research Institute Signal. 57 Krupskoy Street, Kovrov, Vladimir Oblast, 601903, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Angstrem, Angstrem-M, Dom 4, Stroennie 3, Proezd 4806, Zelenograd, Russia 124460. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
Joint Stock Company Angstrem-T, Dom 7, Georgievskiy Prospekt, Zelenograd, Russia 124460. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
Joint Stock Company Aramil Aviation Repair Plant, a.k.a., the following one alias: —AARZ. Garnizon Street, Aramil, Sysertsky Region, Sverdlovsk Oblast. 624000, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Joint Stock Company Arzamas Instrument-Making Plant named after P.I. Plandin, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —AO Arzamassky Priborostroitelny Zavod Imeni Plandina; —AO APZ; —Arzamas Instrument-Building Plant; —JSC Arzamas Instrument Plant; —JSC Arzamassky Priborostroitelny Zavod Imeni Plandina; and —JSC Arzamassky Priborostroitelny Factory Named After P.I. Plandin. 8A 50 Let VLKSM Street, Nizhny Novgorod Oblast, 607220, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Astrophysika National Centre of Laser Systems and Complexes, a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Natsionalniy Tsentr Lazernykh Sistem I Kompleksov Astrofizika; —AO Natsionalniy Tsentr Lazernykh Sistem I Kompleksov Astrofizika; —OAO Natsionalniy Tsentr Lazernykh Sistem I Kompleksov Astrofizika; —AO NTSLSK Astrofizika; —GP NPO Astrofizika; —Astrofizika; and —Astrophysica. 27 Aleksandra Solzhenitsyna Street, Room I, Inner City Municipal District Nagorny, Moscow, 109004, Russia; and 7 Nagorny Passage, Building 1, Inner City Municipal District Nagorny, Moscow, 117105, Russia; and 112 Volokolamskoe Highway, Moscow, 123424, Russia; and Poreche Building, Ruza, Moscow Region, Russia; and 95 Volokolamskoe Highway, Building 3, Moscow, 107392, Russia; and 95 Volokolamskoe Highway, Building 4, Moscow, 107392, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Aviaremont, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Aviaremont. 17 Rossolimo Street, Building 2, Floor 4, Section V, Rooms 11-28, Moscow, 119021, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Joint Stock Company Aviation Reducers and Transmissions—Perm Motors, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —JSC Aviation Reducers and Transmissions—Perm Motor; —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Aviatsionnye Reduktora I Transmissii—Permskie Motory; —Joint Stock Company Reductor-PM; and —JSC Reductor-PM. 105G Geroyev Khasan Street, Perm, Perm Region, 614025, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Avtomatika, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Avtomatika. 113G Svetlanskaya Street, Vladivostok, Primorsk Krai, 690001, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Joint Stock Company Bryansk Automobile Plant, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO BAZ; —AO Bryanski Avtomobilny Zavod; —Bryansk Automobile Factory; and —JSC Bryansk Automobile Plant. 1 Staleliteynaya Street, Bryansk, Bryansk Oblast, 241035, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Bryansk Electromechanical Plant, a.k.a., the following one alias:—BEMZ. 136 Vokzalnaya Street, Bryansk, 241017, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Joint Stock Company Bryansk Wheeled Tractor Factory-Almaz-Antey, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —AO BZKT-Almaz-Antey; —BZKT-Almaz-Antey; and —JSC Bryansk Wheeled Tractor Factory-Almaz-Antey. 1 Staleliteyny Street, Bryansk, Bryansk Region, 241035, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Center of Research and Technology Services Dinamika, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —AO TSNTU Dinamika;—AO Tsentr Nauchno-Tekhnicheskikh Uslug Dinamika; and—JSC Center for Scientific and Technical Services Dinamika. 9/18 Shkolnaya Street, Zhukovskiy, Moscow Oblast, 140184, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Central Company of Financial Industrial Group High Speed Fleet, a.k.a., the following eight aliases: —AO TsK FPG Skorostnoi Flot; —AO Tsentralnaya Kompaniya Finansovo-Promyshlennoi Gruppy Skorostnoi Flot; —JSC Central Company of Financial Industrial Group High Speed Fleet; —Financial Industrial Group High-Speed Fleet —FIG High-Speed Ships; —Rapid Fleet Financial Industrial Group; —Nigh-Speed Ships; and —FIG High-Speed Ships. 6 Suvorovskaya Street, Premises V, Floor 2, Room 4, Moscow, 107023, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Central Design Bureau of Apparatus Engineering, a.k.a., the following nine aliases: —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Tsentralnoe Konstruktorskoe Byuro Apparatostroeniya; —AO Tsentralnoe Konstruktorskoe Byuro Apparatostroeniya; —JSC Central Design Bureau of Apparatus Engineering; —Central Design Bureau of Apparatus Engineering; —Joint Stock Company Apparatus Development; —AO TSKBA; —JSC TSKBA; —JSC CDBAE; and —TSKBA. 36 Demonstratsii Street, Tula, Tula Region, 300034, Russia; and 41 Pionerski Avenue, Building 4, Office 39, Anapa, Krasnodarsk Region, 353456, Russia; and 14A Akademika Pavlova Street, Letter A, Office 2, Saint Petersburg, 197022, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Central Research Institute Burevestnik, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —AO Tsentralny Nauchno-Issledovatelski Institut Burevestnik; —AO TSNII Burevestnik; —Burevestnik; —Central Scientific Research Institute Burevestnik; and —JSC CRI Burevestnik. 1a Sormovskoe Highway, Nizhny Novgorod, Nizhny Novgorod Oblast, 603950, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Central Research Institute of Automation and Hydraulics, a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —AO TSNIIAG; —AO Tsentralny Nauchno-Issledovatelski Institut Avtomatiki I Gidravliki; —Central Scientific Research Institute of Automation and Hydraulics; —Federal Research and Production Center Central Research Institute of Automation and Hydraulics; —CNIIAG; —JSC Central Scientific Research Institute of Automation and Hydraulics; and —TSNIIAG. 5 Sovetskoy Armii Street, Moscow, 127018, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Central Scientific-Research Radiotechnical Institute named after Academic A. I. Berg, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —AO TsNIRTI i.m. Akademika A. I. Berga; —AO Tsentralny Nauchno-Issledovstelski Radiotekhnicheski Institut Imeni Akademika A.I. Berga; —Central Scientific-Research Radiotechnical Institute named after Academic A. I. Berg; —CNIRTI; and —TsNIRTI n.a. A. I. Berg. 20 Novaya Basmanaya Street, Building 9, Moscow, 107078, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Class, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —JSC Class; —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Nauchno-Proizvodstvennoe Predpriyatie Klass; —JSC Research and Production Enterprise Class; —AO NPP Klass; —JSC NPP Class; and —NPP Klass. 3 Solvetskaya Street, Floor 2, Room 2, Lukhovitsky, Moscow Region, 140501, Russia; and 56 Entuziastov Highway, Building 21, Moscow, 111123, Russia; and Patriarkha Pimena Street, Building 75, Sofrino Working Village, Pushkino, Moscow Region, 141200, Russia; and 50 Sovetskaya Street, Building 2, Lukhovitsky, Moscow Region, 140500, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint-Stock Company Concern Almaz-Antey, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Almaz-Antey Corp; and—Almaz-Antey Defense Corporation; and—Almaz-Antey JSC; and—Otkrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Kontsern PVO Almaz Antei. 41 ul. Vereiskaya, Moscow, 121471, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 42455, 7/22/14.
Joint Stock Company Concern Avrora Scientific and Production Association, a.k.a., the following eight aliases: —AO Kontsern Nauchno-Proizvodstvennoe Obedinenie Avrora; —AO Kontsern NPO Avrora; —Avrora Systems; —Avrora JSC; —Concern Avrora Scientific Production Association; —Concern Research and Production Association Avrora; —NPO Avrora; and —OJSC Concern NPO Avrora. 10 Nikolskaya Street, Office 406, Moscow, Russia; and 15 Karbysheva Street, Saint Petersburg, 194021, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Concern Avtomatika, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—AO Kontsern Avtomatika; —JSC Concern Automation; and—OJSC Kontsern Avtomatika. 25 Botanicheskaya Street, Premises 1, Moscow, 127106, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Concern Central Institute for Scientific Research Elektropribor, a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —AO Kontsern Tsentralny Nauchno-Issledovatelski Institute Elektropribor; —AO Kontsern TsNII Elektropribor; —CNII Elektropribor; —Concern CSRI Elektropribor JSC; —Elektropribor SBP; —JSC Central Research Institute Concern Elektropribor; and —SOPSERP CSRI Elektropribor JSC. 30 Malaya Posadskaya Street, Saint Petersburg, 197046, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Concern Morinformsystem Agat, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —AO Kontsern Morinformsistema-Agat; —AO Kontsern Morinsis-Agat; —Concern Agat; —Concern Morinformsystem Agat JSC; —Kontsern Agat; and —JSC Kontsern Morinformsistema Agat. 29 Entuziastov Highway, Moscow, 105275, Russia; and 174 Grabtsevskoe Highway, Kaluga, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Concern Okeanpribor, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —AO Kontsern Okeanpribor; —JSC Concern Okeanpribor; —Kontsern Okeanpribor, PAO; —JSC Concern Ocean Instruments; —Concern Oceanpribor OAO; and —Oceanpribor. 46 Chkalovski Avenue, Saint Petersburg, 197376, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint-Stock Company Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies; and—JSC Concern Radio-Electronic Technologies; and—Kret. 20/1 Korp. 1 ul. Goncharnaya, Moscow 109240, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 42455, 7/22/14.
Joint Stock Company Concern Sozvezdie, a.k.a., the following one alias:—JSC Concern Sozvezdie. 14 Plekhanovskaya Street, Voronezh, Russia; and 14 ul. Plekhanovskaya, Voronezh, Voronezhskaya obl. 394018, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 42455, 7/22/14.
Joint Stock Company Defense Systems, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO Oboronitelnye Sistemy; —JSC Defense Systems; —Defense Systems Corporation; and —Defensys. 29 Vereyskaya Street, Moscow, 121357, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Design Bureau Kuntsevo, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO KB Kuntsevo; —AO Konstruktorskoe Byuro Kuntsevo; —JSC Design Bureau Kuntsevo; and —KB Kuntsevo. 29a Vereyskaya Street, Building 4, Moscow, 121357, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Design Bureau of Navigation Systems, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Design Bureau of Navigation Systems JSC; —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Konstruktorskoe Byuro Navigatsionnykh Sistem; —AO Konstruktorskoe Byuro Navigatsionnykh Sistem; and —AO KB Navis. 3 Kulneva Street, Building 1, Room III/5,6, Moscow, 121170, Russia; and 9 Mendeleevskaya Street, Letter V, Saint Petersburg, 194044, Russia; and Building 25, Mendeleevo Working Town, Solnechnogorsk, Moscow Region, 141570, Russia. (See alternate address under Ukraine.) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Design Bureau of Special Machine Building, a.k.a., the following nine aliases: —AO KBSM; —AO Konstruktorskoe Byuro Spetsialnogo Mashinostroeniya; —JSC Design Bureau of Special Machine Building; —KBSM; —Design Bureau of Special Machine Building AO; —Design Bureau of Special Machine Building; —KBSM Design Bureau of Special Machine Building; —Joint Stock Company KBSM; and —Joint Stock Company Engineering Office Spetsialnogo Mashinostroyeniya. 120 Obukhovsky Oborony Avenue, Saint Petersburg, 192012, Russia; and 64 Obukhovskoy Oborony Avenue, Saint Petersburg 192012 Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Design Center Soyuz, a.k.a., the following one alias: —AO Dizain Tsentr Soyuz. 14 Konstruktora Lukina Street, Building 1, Zelenograd, Moscow, 124482, Russia; and K. 100, Kom. 205, Zelenograd, Moscow, 124482, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Design Technology Center Elektronika, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —AO KTTS Elektronika; —AO Konstruktorsko-Tekhnologicheskiy Tsentr Elektronika;—JSC Electronics EDC;—JSC Electronics Engineering and Design Center; and—JSC Elektronika Engineering and Design Center. 119A Leninskiy Prospekt, Building 17a, 2nd Floor, Voronezh, 394033, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Dubnenskiy Machine-Building Plant named after N. P. Fedorova, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Joint Stock Company Dubna Machine—Building Plant by N.P. Fedorov; —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Dubnenski Mashinostroitelny Zavod imeni N.P. Fedorova; —DMZ im. N. P. Fedorova; —DMZ—Kamov; and —DMZ. 2 Zhukovsky Street, Building 1, Dubna, Moscow Region, 141983, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Dux, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —AO DUKS; and —Dux, JSC. 8 Pravdy Street, Moscow, 125040, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Eastern Defense Enterprise Granit, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO VOP Granit; —AO Vostochnoe Oboronnoe Predpriyatie Granit; —JSC Eastern Defense Enterprise Granit; and —VOP Granit. 55 Eniseiskaya Street, Vladivostok, Primorski Region, 690039, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Eastern Shipyard, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —AO Vostochnaya Verf; —AO V-VERF; —JSC Eastern Wharf; —JSC Vladivostok Shipyard; and —Vladivostok Shipbuilding Plant. 1 Geroyev Tikhookeantsev Street, Vladivostok, Primorsky Territory, 690017, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Eirburg, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —JSC Eirburg; —JSC Airburg; —Aktsionernoe Obschchestvo Eirburg; —AO Eirburg; —OKB UZGA, OOO; and —Limited Liability Company OKB UZGA. 8 Marta Street, Building 49, Floor 3, Yekaterinburg, Sverdlov Region, 620063, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Electroavtomatika, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —JSC Electroavtomatika; —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Elektroavtomatika; —AO Elektroavtomatika; and —OAO Elektroavtomatika. 9 Zavodskaya Street, Stavropol, Stavropol Region, 355008, Russia; and Novotroitskaya Village, Building B, Izobilnenski Region, 356100, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Elektron Optronik, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —AO Tsentralniy Nauchno-Issledovatelskiy Institut Elektron; —AO Elektron Optronik;—Elektron Optronik PAO;—JSC Central Scientific-Research Institute Elektron;—JSC Elektron Optronik; and—JSC TSII Elektron. 68 Toreza Avenue, Saint Petersburg, 194223, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Eleron, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—JSC FCS&HT SNPO Eleron and—SNPO Eleron. 55 Dibunovskaya St., St. Petersburg, 197183, Russia; and 14 Generala Belova St., Moscow, 115563, Russia; and 11 Oktyabrskava St., Ozersk, Chelyabinsk Region, 456780, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Joint Stock Company ENICS, a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —AO ENIKS; —ENICS; —ENICS Research Centre; —JSC ENICS; —Production Cooperative Research Center ENIKS; —Proizvodstvenny Kooperativ Nauchno-Issledovatelski Tsentr Eniks; and —Scientific Research Center ENIKS. 120 Korolenko Street, Kazan, Republic of Tatarstan, 420094, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Experimental Design Bureau named after A.S. Yakovlev, a.k.a., the following one alias:—A.S. Yakovlev EDB. 68 Leningrad Prospect, Moscow, 12531568, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Joint Stock Company Experimental Design Bureau Novator, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Novator Design Bureau; and—JSC OKB Novator. 18 Prospekt Kosmonavtov, 620017 Yekaterinburg, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 60305, 12/20/17.
Joint Stock Company Federal Research and Production Center Altai, 1 Socialist Street, Biysk, Altai Territory, 659322, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Joint Stock Company Federal Scientific and Production Center Titan-Barrikady, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Federal Research and Production Center Titan Barrikady JSC;—Titan Design Bureau; and—JSC FNPTS Titan-Barrikady. Prospekt Imeni V.I. Lenina, b/n 400071, Volgograd, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 60305, 12/20/17.
Joint Stock Company Flight Research Institute N.A. M.M. Gromov, a.k.a., the following one alias: —FRI Gromov. 2A Garnaeva Street, Zhukovsky, Moscow Oblast, 140180, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Joint Stock Company Foreign Economic Association (FEA) Radioexport, 8 Ukrainksi Boulevard, Moscow, Russia, 121059. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
Joint Stock Company Gazprom Space Systems, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Gazprom Kosmicheskie Sistemy; —Gazprom Kosmicheskie Sistemy; —Gazprom Kosmicheskie Sistemy, OAO; and —GSS. 77B Moskovskaya Street, Shchelkovo, Moscow Region, 141108, Russia; and 2A Yuzhnaya Street, Novy Urengoi, Yamalo-Nenetski Autonomous Region, 629300, Russia; and 8 Sergeya Eizenshteina Street, Building 1, Moscow, 101000, Russia; and 31 Pervomaiskaya Street, Shchelkovo, Moscow Region, 141010, Russia; and 15A Tsentralnaya Street, Skvortsovo, Khabarovsk Region, 680539, Russia; and 18B Sakko I Vantsetti Street, Korolev, Moscow Region, 141070, Russia; and 35 Azimutovskaya Street, Ordynskoe Working Town, Ordynski Region, 633261, Russia; and Ponomarevka Building, Pereslav, Yaroslav Region, 152044, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Gorizont, 2 “J” Omskaya Street, Rostov-on-Don, 344068, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 99703, 12/11/24.
Joint Stock Company Head Special Design Bureau Prozhektor, 56 Highway Enthusiasts, Moscow, 111123, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Joint Stock Company Helicopter Service Company, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —JSC Helicopter Service Company; —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Vertoletnaya Servisnaya Kompaniya; —AO Vertoletnaya Servisnaya Kompaniya; —AO VSK; —VSK; and —HSC. 40/2 Prechistenka Street, Building 3, Moscow, 119034, Russia; and Building 1, Khimki, Moscow Region, 141407, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Ilyushin Aviation Complex, a.k.a., the following one alias:—PAO Ilyushin. 45G Leningrad Prospect, Moscow, 125190, Russia; and 2 Tupolev Street, Zhukovsky, Moscow Oblast, 140185, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Joint Stock Company Information Satellite Systems Named After Academician M.F. Reshetnev, a.k.a., the following eight aliases: —AO Informatsionnye Sputnikovye Systemy imeni Akademika M.F. Reshetnyova; —AO ISS; —AO ISS im. M.F. Reshetnyova; —JSC Academician M.F. Reshetnev Information Satellite Systems; —JSC ISS Reshetnev; —ISS Reshetnev; —ISS-Reshetnev Company; and —Reshetnev Company. 52 Lenina Street, Zheleznogorsk, Krasnoyarsk Territory, 662972, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Institute for Scientific Research Microelectronic Equipment Progress, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO NIIMA Progress;—Microelectronics Research Institute Progress JSC;—Nauchno-Issledovatelskiy Institut Mikroelektronnoiy Apparatury Progress; and—Progress MRI JSC. 54 Cherepanovykh Drive, Moscow, 125183, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Institute of Applied Physics, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Institut Prikladnoi Fiziki; —AO Institut Prikladnoi Fiziki; —Institute Of Applied Physics IAP; and —AO IPF. 11 Arbuzova Street, Novosibirsk, Novosibirsk Region, 630117, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Izhevsk Electromechanical Plant Kupol, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO IEMZ Kupol; —AO Izhevskiy Elektromekhanicheskiy Zavod Kupol; —IEMZ Kupol; and —JSC Izhevsk Electromechanical Plant Kupol. 3 Pesochnaya Street, Izhevsk, Udmurt Republic, 426033, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company (JSC) NIIME, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo (AO) Nauchnoisledovatelskiy Institut Molekulyarnoy Elektroniki (NIIME); and—Molecular Electronics Research Institute (MERI) 1st Zapadniy Proezd 12/1, Zelenograd, Russia, 124460. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 44824, 9/4/18.
Joint Stock Company Jupiter Plant, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —JSC Zavod Yupiter; —JSC Jupiter Plant; —Zakrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Zavod Yupiter; —Closed Joint Stock Company Jupiter Plant; and —ZAO Zavod Yupiter. 107 Pobedy Street, Building 1, Valdai, Valdai Region, 175400, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Kaluga Scientific Research Institute of Radio Engineering (KNIRTI), 2 Lenina Street, Zhukov, Zhukovski Region, Kaluzhskaya Oblast, Russian Federation, 249190. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
Joint Stock Company Kazan Experimental Design Bureau Soyuz, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO Kazanskoe OKB Soyuz; —AO Kazanskoe Opytnoe Konstruktorskoe Byuro Soyuz; —JSC Kazan Experimental Design Bureau Soyuz; and —Kazan OKB Soyuz. 1 Dementiev Street, Kazan, Republic of Tatarstan, 420036, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Kazan Optical-Mechanical Plant, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —AO Kazanski Optiko-Mekhanicheski Zavod; —AO KOMZ; —JSC Kazan Optical-Mechanical Factory; —KOMZ; and —KOMZ RT. 37 Lipatova Street, Kazan, Republic of Tatarstan, 420075, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Khabarovsk Shipbuilding Yard, a.k.a., the following ten aliases: —AO Khabarovsky Sudostroitelny Zavod; —AO KHSZ; —AO HSZ; —JSC Khabarovsk Shipbuilding Plant; —JSC Khabarovskiy Shipyard; —JSC Khabarovsky Sudostroitelny Zavod; —JSC Khabarovsk Shipyard; —JSC KHSZ; —Khabarovsky Shipbuilding Plant; and —Khabarovsk Shipbuilding Plant. 1 Suvorova Street, Khabarovsk, Khabarovsk Territory, 680003, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Kizlyar Electromechanical Plant, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —AO Concern KEMZ;—JSC Kontsern Kizlyarskii Elektromekhanicheskii Zavod; and—Kizlyar Electro-Mechanical Plant. 1 Kutuzova Street, Kizlyar, 368870, Dagestan Republic, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Kumertau Aviation Production Enterprise, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —JSC Kumertau Aviation Production Enterprise; —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Kumertauskoe Aviatsionnoe Proizvodstvennoe Predpriyatie; —JSC Kumapp; and —AO Kumapp. 15A Novozarinskaya Street, Kumertau, Republic of Bashkortostan, 453300, Russia; and Nugush Village, Meleuzovski Region, Republic of Bashkortostan, 453871, Russia; and 7 Bolshaya Pochtovaya, Building 7, Moscow, 105082, Russia; and Ira Village, Kumertau, Republic of Bashkortostan, 453300, Russia; and 1 Salavata Street, Kumertau, Republic of Bashkortostan, 453350, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Lazurit Central Design Bureau, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Tsentralnoe Konstruktorskoe Byuro Lazurit. 57 Svoboda Street, Nizhny Novgorod, 603951, Russia; and 25H, 29H, Building 6/2, Lit. A, Ligovsky Prospect, Saint Petersburg, 191036, Russia; and 72 Svetlanskaya Street, Vladivostok, Primorsky Territory, 690091, Russia; and 1 Lebedva Street, Bolshoy Kamen, Primorsky Territory, 692801, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Joint Stock Company M.V. Frunze Arsenal Design Bureau, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —JSC M.V. Frunze Arsenal Design Bureau; —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Konstruktorskoe Byuro Arsenal Imeni M.V. Frunze; —AO KB Arsenal; and —JSC KB Arsenal. 1-3 Komsomola Street, Letter M, Room 19-N, Saint Petersburg, 195009, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Machine Building Company Vityaz, a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —AO Mashinostroitelnaya Kompaniya Vityaz; —AO MK Vityaz; —JSC Machine Building Company Vityaz; —MK Vityaz; —MBC Vityaz; —UVZ Vityaz; and —Vityaz. 2 Industrialnoye Highway, Ishimbay, Republic of Bashkortostan, 453203, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Machine-Building Engineering Office Fakel Named After Akademika P.D. Grushina, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO MKB Fakel;—Engineering Design Bureau Fakel;—JSC EBD Fakel; and—Mashinostroitelnoe Konstruktorskoe Byuro Fakel I.M. Akademika P.D. Grushina. 33 Akademika Grushina Street, Khimki, Moscow Oblast, 141401, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Main Production and Technical Enterprise Granit, a.k.a., the following ten aliases: —AO Golovnoe Proizvodstvenno-Tekhnicheskoe Predpriyatie Granit; —AO GPTP Granit; —GPTP Granit; —Granit Main Service and Repair Center of the Group for Air Defense Concern Almaz-Antey; —GTsO PVO Granit; —JSC Main Production and Technical Enterprise Granit; —Leading Production and Technical Enterprise Granit; —JSC GPTP Granit; —Almaz-Antey GPTP Granit; and —JSC Head Technological Enterprise Granit. 7 Molodogvardeyskaya Street, Moscow, 121467, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Management Company Radiostandard, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO Upravlyayushchaya Kompaniya Radiostandart; —AO UK Radiostandart; —JSC MC Radiostandart; and —Radio Standard. Kirovsky Plant, 29-N Marshal Govorov Street, Saint Petersburg, 198097, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Marine Instrument Engineering Corporation, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO Korporatsiya Morskogo Priobostroeniya; —AO KMP; —JSC KMP; and —JSC Marine Instrumentation Corporation. 30 Malaya Posadskaya Street, Saint Petersburg, 197046, Russia; and 4 Shvernika Street, Building 4, Moscow, 117292, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Metallist Samara, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Metallist Samara. 278 Promyshlennost Street, Samara, Samara Oblast, 443023, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Joint Stock Company Military-Industrial Corporation NPO Mashinostroyenia, a.k.a., the following eight aliases:—Joint Stock Company Military Industrial Consortium NPO Mashinostroyenia; and—JSC MIC NPO Mashinostroyenia; and—MIC NPO Mashinostroyenia JSC; and—MIC NPO Mashinostroyeniya JSC; and—Military Industrial Corporation NPO Mashinostroenia OAO; and—Open Joint Stock Company Military Industrial Corporation Scientific and Production Machine Building Association; and—Voenno-Promyshlennaya Korporatsiya Nauchno-Proizvodstvennoe Obedinenie Mashinostroeniya OAO; and—VPK NPO Mashinostroeniya. 33, Gagarina St., Reutov-town, Moscow Region 143966, Russia; and 33 Gagarin Street, Reutov, Moscow Region, 143966, Russia; and 33 Gagarina ul., Reutov, Moskovskaya obl 143966. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 42455, 7/22/14.
Joint Stock Company Moscow Machinebuilding Enterprise named after V.V. Chernyshev, a.k.a., the following one alias: —MMP V.V. Chernyshev. 7 Vishnevaya Street, Moscow 125362, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Joint Stock Company Moscow Scientific-Research Institute Agat, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO MNII Agat; —AO Moskovski Nauchno-Issledovatelski Institut Agat; —JSC Moscow Scientific-Research Institute Agat; and —MNII Agat. 2a Tupolev Street, Zhukovsky, Moscow Region, 140185, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Murom Radio Measuring Devices Plant, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO Muromski Zavod Radioizmeritelnykh Priborov; —AO MZ RIP; —JSC Murom Radio Measuring Devices Plant; and —MZ RIP. 2 Karacharovskoye Highway, Murom, Vladimir Region, 602267, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Mytishchi Machine Building Plant, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO MMZ; —MM Zavod; —MMZ; —Mytishchi Machine Building Plant; —MMZ JSC; —Otkrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Mytishchinski Mashinostroitelny Zavod; —JSC Mytishchinski Machine-Building Plant; and —Mytishchinski Machinostroitelny Zavod, OAO. Passage 1-33 Yaroslavl Highway, Mytishchi, Moscow Region, 141009, Russia; and Passage 2-VL11, Frunze Street, Mytishchi, Moscow Region, 141001, Russia; and 4 Kolontsova Street, Mytishchi, Moscow Region, 141009, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company National Helicopter Construction Center named after M.L. Mil and N.I. Kamov, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —JSC National Helicopter Center Mil and Kamov; —JSC National Helicopter Center Mil&Kamov; —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Natsionalny Tsentr Vertoletostroeniya im. M.L. Milya I N.I. Kamova; —JSC NTsV Mil i Kamov; —AO NTsV Mil i Kamov; and —NTsV Mil i Kamov. 26/1 Garshina, Tomilino Street, Lyuberetsky Region, 140070, Russia; and 5 Novatorov Street, Rostov-na-Donu, Rostov Region, Russia; and Pionerskaya Street, Tomilino Working Village, Lyubertsy, Moscow Region, 140004, Russia; and 5 Lenin Square, Arsenev, Primorsky Region, 692342, Russia; and 2 Sokolnicheski Val Street, Moscow, 107113, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Navigator Institute of Aviation Instrument-Making, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —AO Navigator; —AO Institut Aviatsionnogo Priborostroeniya Navigator; —Institute of Aviation Instrument-Making Navigator; —JSC Navigator Institute of Aviation Instrument-Making; and —Navigat. 14 Shkipersky Protok Street, Letter Z, Building 19, Office 325, Saint Petersburg, 199106, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Nevskoe Design Bureau, a.k.a, the following ten aliases: —AO Nevskoe PKB; —AO Nevskoye Proyektno-Konstruktorskoye Byuro; —Joint Public Stock Company Nevskoe Design Bureau; —JSC Nevskoe PKB; —JSC Nevskoye Project and Design Bureau; —Nevskoe Design and Construction Office; —Nevskoe Design Bureau; —Nevskoe Design Bureau JPSC; —NPKB; and —Neva Design Bureau. 3 Galerny Way, Saint Petersburg, 199106, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company NII Gidrosvyazi Shtil, a.k.a, the following two aliases: —JSC NII Shtil; and —Nauchno-Issledovatelski Institut Gidrosvyazi “Shtil”. 17, A Angarskaya Street, Volgograd, Volgogradskaya Oblast, 400081. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company NII Steel, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Scientific Research Institute of Steel. 81A Dubninskaya, Moscow, 127411, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Joint Stock Company Nizhny Novgorod Plant of the 70th Anniversary of Victory, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO Nizhegorodskiy Zavod 70-Letiya Pobedy; —AO NZ 70-Letiya Pobedy; —NZSLP; and —Zavod 70-Letiya Pobedy. 21 Sormovskoe Highway, Nizhny Novgorod, Nizhny Novgorod Oblast, 603052, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company North Western Regional Center of Almaz Antey Concern Obukhovsky Plant, a.k.a., the following five aliases:—AO GOZ;—AO Severo-Zapadny Regionalny Tsentr Kontserna VKO Almaz-Antei Obukhovsky Zavod;—JSC GOZ Obukhov Plant;—JSC Obukhovskiy Zavod; and—JSC SOP Obukhovskiy Plant. 120 Obukhovskoy Oborony Avenue, Building 19, Premises 1-N #708, Saint Petersburg, 190012, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Northern Production Association Arktika, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —AO Severnoye Proizvodstvennoye Obedineniye Arktika; —AO SPO Arktika; —JSC Northern Production Association Arktika; —JSC SPO Arktika; —Production Association Arktika; and —SPO Arktika. 34 Arkhangelskoye Highway, Severodvinsk, Arkhangelsk Oblast, 164500, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Novosibirsk Aircraft Repair Plant, the following four aliases: —AO NARZ; —AO Novosibirski Aviaremontny Zavod; —JSC NARP; and —Novosibirski Aviaremontny Zavod, PAO. 2/4 Aeroport Street, Novosibirsk, Novosibirsk Region, 630123, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company NPO Elektromechaniki, a.k.a., the following one alias:—JSC Scientific and Production Association of Electro Mechanic. 31 Mendeleeva street, Miass, Chelyabinsk Region, 456320, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Joint Stock Company Oboronpromservice United Base Service Center, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO OBSTS Oboronpromservis; —AO Obedinenny Bazovy Servisny Tsentr Oboronpromservis; —JSC Oboronpromservice United Base Service Center; and —OBSC Oboronpromservice. 29 Vereyskaya Street, Building 6, Moscow, 121357, Russia; and 29A Vereyskaya Street, Building 4, Moscow, 121357, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Obukhovskoye, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —AO Obukhovskoe; —JSC Obukhovskoye; —Obukhovskoye; —CJSC Obukhovskoye; and —SC Obukhovskoye. 7 Tsvetochnaya Street, Building 1, Room 18-N, Saint Petersburg, 196084, Russia; and 7 Tsvetochnaya Street, Letter L, Saint Petersburg, 196084, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company ODK-Klimov, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —JSC ODK-Klimov; —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo ODK-Klimov; —AO ODK-Klimov; and —UEC-Klimov. 11 Kantemirovskaya Street, Building 1, Saint Petersburg, 194100, Russia; and 4A Lenin Place, Arsenev, Primorsky Region, 692335, Russia; and 1 Khorinskaya Street, Ulan-Ude, Republic of Buryatiya, 670009, Russia; and Razdole Building, Priozersk Region, Leningrad Region, 188733, Russia; and Military Unit 35666, Korenovsk, Korenovsk Region, 353180, Russia; and 14 Tetsevskaya Street, Kazan, Republic of Tatarstan, 420085, Russia; and 57 Zapovednaya Street, Saint Petersburg, 194356, Russia; and 283 Bogdana Khmelnitskogo Street, Omsk, Omsk Region, 644021, Russia; and 93 Komsomolski Avenue, Perm, Perm Region, 614010, Russia; and Military Unit 44936, Novaya Zhizn Village, Budennovski Region, 356821, Russia; and 2 Vodnikov Street, Moscow, 125362, Russia; and 6 Berzarina Street, Building 2, Moscow, 127204, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Joint Stock Company Penza Electrotechnical Research Institute, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —AO Penzenskiy Nauchno- Issledovatelskiy Elektrotekhnicheskiy Institut;—JSC Penza; and—JSC PNIEI. 9 Sovetskaya Street, Penza, Penza Oblast, 440026, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Perm Machine Building Plant, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —AO Permskiy Zavod Mashinostroitel; —AO PZ Mash; —JSC Perm Plant Mashinostroitel; —JSC Permskiy Zavod Mashinostroitel; —JSC PP Mash; and —Mashinostroitel Perm Factory JSC. 57 Novozvyaginskaya Street, Perm, Perm Territory, 614014, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Perm Scientific Industrial Instrument-Making Company (PNPPK), 25th of October Street, Number 106, Perm, Russia 614990. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
Joint Stock Company Polimer, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Polimer; —AO Polimer; —PAO Polimer; —Public Joint Stock Company Polimer; and —JSC Polimer. 4 Proizvodstvennaya Street, Chapeavsk, Samara Region, 446100, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Precision Engineering Design Bureau named after A.E. Nudelman, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —AO Konstruktorskoe Byuro Tochnogo Mashinostroeniya imeni A.E. Nudelmana; —AO KB Tochmash im. A.E. Nudelmana; —JSC Precision Machine Building Design Bureau Nudelman; —KB Tochmash; —Nudelman Precision Engineering Design Bureau; and —Tochmash. 8 Vvedenskogo Street, Moscow, 117342, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Production Association Sever, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO PO Sever; —JSC PA Sever;—JSC PO North; and—Proizvodstvennoe Obedinenie Sever. 3 Obedineniya Street, Novosibirsk, Novosibirsk Oblast, 630020, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Production Association Ural Optical and Mechanical Plant Named After E.S. Yalamov, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—AO Proizvodsvennoe Obedinenie Uralskii Opitko-Mekhanicheskii Zavod;—JSC PA UOMP;—JSC PO UOMZ; and—Ural Optical and Mechanical Plant. 33B Vostochnaya Street, Yekaterinburg, Sverdlovsk Oblast, 620100, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Production Complex Akhtuba, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —JSC PK Akhtuba; and —OAO PK Akhtuba. 17 Angarskaya Street, Volgograd, Volgogradskaya Oblast, 400081. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Progress Arsenyev Aviation Company, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —JSC Progress Arsenyev Aviation Company; —JSC AAC Progress; —AO AAK Progress; and —AAC Progress. 5 Lenin Square, Arsenyev, Primorsky Region, 692342, Russia; and 7 Kievskaya Street, Building 2, Moscow, 121059, Russia; and Building 10, Ayaks Settlement, Russki Island, Vladivostok, Primorsky Region, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Project Design Bureau RIO, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO PKB RIO; —JSC PKB RIO; —PKB RIO; and —RIO Design Bureau. 19 Uralskaya Street, Building 9, Letter Zh, Saint Petersburg, 199155, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Radioavionika, a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —JSC Radioavionika; —OAO Radioavionika; —Otkrytoe Atsionernoe Obshchestvo Radioavionika; —OJSC Radioavionika; —Open Joint Stock Company Radioavionika; —PAO Radioavionika; and —Radioavionica Corporation. 4 Troitski Avenue, Letter B, Saint Petersburg, 190005, Russia; and 20 Basmannaya Nov. Street, Moscow, 107066, Russia; and 14 Obvonogo Kanala Embankment, Saint Petersburg, 192019, Russia; and 116 Borovaya Street, Saint Petersburg, 192007, Russia; and 11 Kosmonatov Avenue, Letter Kh, Office 13, Yekaterinburg, Sverdlovskaya Region, 620017, Russia; and 22 Krasnoflotski Lane, Office 5, Rostov-na-Donu, Rostov Region, 344002, Russia; and 21 Dzerzhinskogo Street, Staraya Russa, Starorusski Region, 175202, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Ramenskoye Design Company, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO Ramenskoe Priborostroitelnoe Konstruktorskoe Byuro;—AO RPKB;—JSC Ramenskoe Instrument Design Company; and—JSC RDC. 2 Guriyeva Street, Ramenskoye, Moscow Oblast, 140103, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Ramensky Instrument Engineering Plant, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Ramensky Instrument-Engineering Plant. 39 Mikhalevicha Street, Room 20, Floor 2, Space 124, Ramensk, Moscow Oblast, 140100, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Joint Stock Company Ratep, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO RATEP; —JSC RATEP; —OAO RATEP; and —RATEP. 11 Dzerzhinskogo Street, Serpukhov, Moscow Oblast, 142205, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Remdizel, 40 Menzelinsky Tract, Naberezhnyye Cheliny, Republic of Tatarstan, 423800, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Joint Stock Company Research and Development Enterprise Protek, a.k.a., the following one alias:—JSC NVP Protek. 6 Basic St., Voronezh, 394028, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Joint Stock Company Research and Production Association Named After S.A. Lavochkina, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —AO Nauchno-Proizvodstvennoe Obedinenie IM. S.A. Lavochkina; —JSC Lavochkin Science and Production Association; —NPO Imeni S.A. Lavochkina; —NPO Lavochkin; and —S.A. Lavochkin Scientific Production Association. 24 Leningradskaya Street, Khimki, Moscow Oblast, 141402, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) This license requirement may be overcome by License Exception GOV under § 740.11(b)(2) and (e) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99 and for items for U.S. Government supported use in the International Space Station (ISS), which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Research and Production Association of Measuring Equipment, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —AO NPO IT; —AO Nauchno Proizvodstvennoe Obedinenie Izmeritelnoi Tekhniki; and —JSC NPO IT. 2 Pionerskaya Street, Building 4, Floor 3, Office 344, Korolyov, Moscow Oblast, 141074, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) This license requirement may be overcome by License Exception GOV under § 740.11(b)(2) and (e) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99 and for items for U.S. Government supported use in the International Space Station (ISS), which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Research and Production Company Micran, 51d Kirova Street, Tomsk, Russia 634041; and 2/5/4 Building 3 Slavyanskaya Square, Moscow, Russia 109074. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
Joint Stock Company Research and Production Enterprise Radar MMS, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO Nauchno-Proizvodstvennoe Predpriyatie Radar MMS;—JSC Radar MMS;—NPP Radar MMS; and —Scientific Production Association Radar MMS JSC. 37A Novoselkovskaya Street, Saint Petersburg, 197375, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Research and Production Enterprise Sapfir, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO NPP Sapfir; —AO Nauchno-Proizvodstvennoe Predpriyatie Sapfir; —JSC NPP Sapphire; and —JSC Research and Production Company Sapfir. 53 Shcherbakovskaya Street, Building 17, Moscow, 105187, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Research Center ELINS, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —AO Nauchnyy Tsentr ELINS; —ELINS STC JSC;—JSC ELINS;—JSC Scientific and Technical Center ELINS;—NTTS ELINS; and —Scientific-Technical Center ELINS. 10 Panfilovsky Avenue, Zelenograd, Moscow, 124460, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Research Production Association Kurganpribor, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —JSC Research Production Association Kurganpribor; —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Nauchnoproizvodstvennoe Obedinenie Kurganpribor; —AO NPO Kurganpribor; —JSC Kurganpribor; and —Kurganpribor. 41A Yastrzhembskogo Street, Kurgan, Kurgan Region, 640007, Russia; and 8 Presnenskaya Embankment, Moscow, 123317, Russia; and 60/1 Stantsionnaya Street, Novosibirsk, Novosibirsk Region, 630071, Russia; and 1 Dzerzhinskogo Street, Perm, Perm Region, 614068, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company RT-Tekhpriemka, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —AO RT-Techpriemka; —JSC Aviatekhpriemka; and —JSC RT-Tekhpriemka. 1 Elektricheskii Lane, Building 12, Moscow, 123557, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Russian Research Institute Electronstandart, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO Nauchno-Proizvodtvennoe Predpriyatie Elektronstandart;—AO RNII Elektronstandart;—JSC NPP Elektrostandart; and—RNII Electronstandard. 25 Tsvetochnaya Street, Building 3, Saint Petersburg, 196006, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Ryazan Plant of Metal Ceramic Instruments, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —AO Ryazanski Zavod Metallokeramicheskikh Priborov; —AO RZMKP;—JSC Ryazan Metal Ceramics Instrumentation Plant;—Ryazan Plant of Ceramic Devices; and —RMCIP. 51V Novaya Street, Ryazan, Ryazan Oblast, 390027, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Ryazan Production and Technical Enterprise Granit, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO RPTP Granit; —AO Ryazanskoe Proizvodstvenno-Tekhnicheskoe Predpriyatie Granit; —JSC Ryazan Production and Technical Enterprise Granit; and —RPTP Granit. 1 Internationalnaya Street, Building G, Ryazan, Ryazan Region, 390039, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Production Association Android Technics, a.k.a., the following nine aliases: —Android Technics NPO; —AO Nauchno-Proizvostvennoe Obedinenie Androidnaya Tekhnika; —AO NPO Androidnaya Tekhnika; —NPO AT; —Open Joint Stock Company Android Technika; —PAO NPO Androidnaya Tekhnika; —Research and Production Association Android Technics; —Joint Stock Company Scientific Production Association Androidnaya Tekhnika; and —SPA Android Technics. 23 Graivoronovskaya Street, Business Center Volzhski, Moscow, 109518, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Production Association Impulse, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO Nauchno-Proizvodstvennoe Obedinenie Impuls; —AO NPO Impuls; —JSC SPA Impulse; and —NPO Impuls. 2 Kirishskaya Street, Letter A, Saint Petersburg, 195220, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Production Association Moscow Radio-Technical Plant, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —AO Nauchno-Proizvodstvennoe Obedinenie Moskovski Radiotekhnicheski Zavod; —AO NPO MRTZ; —AO Moskovski Radiotekhnicheski Zavod; —JSC Research and Production Association Moscow Radio-Technical Plant; —NPO MRTZ; and —MRTZ. 29 Vereyskaya Street, Moscow, 121357, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Production Association Orion, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —AO Nauchno- Proizvodstvennoe Obedinenie Orion; —JSC SPA Orion; —NPO Orion; —Orion Research and Production Association; and —SPA Orion. 9 Kosinskaya Street, Moscow, 111538, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Production Association Pravdinsky Radio Plant, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —AO Nauchno-Proizvodstvennoe Obedinenie Pravdinski Radiozavod; —AO NPO PRZ; —JSC Research and Production Association Pravdinsky Radio Plant; —NPO PRZ; and —Pravdinsky Radio Plant. 34 Gorky Street, Balakhna, Nizhny Novgorod Region, 606408, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Production Association Russian Basic Information Technologies, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —AO Nauchno—Proizvodstvennoye Obedinenie Russkie Bazoviye Inormatsionniye Tekhnologii; —AO NPO Rusbitekh; —JSC Research Production Association RusBITech; —RPA RusBITech; —RusBITech; and —RusBITekh. 26 Varshavskoye Highway, Building 11, Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Production Association Volna Plant, a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —AO Nauchno—Proizvodstvennoe Obedinenie Zavod Volna; —AO NPO Zavod Volna; —JSC SPA Volna Plant; —NPO Zavod Volna; —NPO Volna Plant; —Research and Production Association Volna Plant; and —Volna SPB. Kirovsky Plant, 29-N Marshal Govorov Street, St. Petersburg, 198095, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Production Center of Automatics and Instrument Building Named After Academician N.A. Pilyugin, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —AO Nauchno-Proizvodstvenniy Tsentr Avtomatiki I Priborostroeniya imeni Akademika N.A. Pilyugina; —AO NPTSAP; —JSC NPTSAP; —NPCAP; and —NPCAP FGUP. 1 Vvedenskogo Street, Moscow, 117342, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Production Concern Tekhmash, a.k.a., the following ten aliases: —AO Nauchno-Proizvodstvenny Kontsern Tekhmash; —AO Nauchno-Proizvodstvenny Kontsern Tekhnologii Mashinotroeniya; —JSC Scientific Industrial Concern Manufacturing Engineering; —JSC SPC Techmash; —JSC Techmash; —NPK Tekhmash; —NPK Tekhmash OAO; —OJSC Machine Engineering Technologies; —Scientific Industrial Concern Manufacturing Engineering OJSC; and —SPC Techmash. 58 Leningradskoe Highway, Building 4, Moscow, 125212, Russia; and 35 Bolshaya Tatarskaya Street, Building 5, Moscow, 115184, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Production Enterprise Digital Solutions, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —ASIC and Electronic Engineering Design Center Digital Solutions JSC;—AO NPP Tsifrovye Resheniya;—DSol NPP;—JSC Digital Solutions; and —LLC Scientific Production Enterprise Digital Solutions. 9a Second Sinichkina Street, Room 4, Office 1, 3rd Floor, Building 7, Moscow 111020, Russia; and A/Ya 18, Moscow, 105066, Russia; and 10 Zavoda Serp I Molot Drive, Moscow, 111250, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Production Enterprise Kontakt, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO NPP Kontakt; —AO Nauchno-Proizvodstvennoe Predpriyatie Kontakt;—JSC NPP Kontakt; and —JSC SPE Contact. 1 Spitsyna Street, Saratov, Saratov Oblast, 410086, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Production Enterprise Plant Iskra, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —AO Nauchno-Proizvodstvennoe Predpriyatie Zavod Iskra; —AO NPP Zavod Iskra; —JSC Research and Production Enterprise Plant Iskra; —NPP Plant Iskra; and —Zavod Iskra. 75 Narimanov Avenue, Ulyanovsk, Ulyanovsk Region, 432030, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Production Enterprise Topaz, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO Nauchno-Proizvodstvennoe Predpriyatie Topaz;—JSC NPP Topaz; —Closed Joint-Stock Company Scientific Production Enterprise Topaz; and —JSC Research and Production Enterprise Topaz. 16 Third Mytishchinskaya Street, Building 34, Moscow, 129626, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Research Engineering Institute, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —AO Nauchno—Issledovatelskiy Inzhenerniy Institut; —AO NIII; and —JSC SREI. 6 Entuziastov Highway, Zapadnaya Promzona, Balashikha, Moscow Oblast, 143912, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Research Institute Giricond, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —AO Nauchno-Issledovatelskiy Institut Girikond;—AO NII Girikond; and—Research Institute Girikond. 10 Kurchatova Street, Saint Petersburg, 194223, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Research Institute of Computer Engineering NII SVT, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO NII SVT; —AO Nauchno Issledovatelskii Institut Sredstv Vychislitelnoi Tekhniki;—JSC NII SVT; and—NII SVT PAO. 31 Melnichnaya Street, Kirov, Kirov Oblast, 610025, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Research Institute of Computing Complexes Named After M.A. Kartsev, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —AO Nauchno—Issledelvatelsky Institut Vychislitelnykh Kompleksov Imeni M.A. Kartseva; —AO NIIVK im. M.A. Kartsev; —JSC Institute for Scientific Research Vychislitelnykh Kompleksov Named After M.A. Kartseva; —JSC NII Vychislitelnykh Kompleksov IM. M.A. Kartseva; —JSC NIIVK IM. M.A. Kartseva; and —NIIVK Named After M.A. Kartsev. 108 Profsoyuznaya Street, Moscow, 117437, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Research Institute of Computing Machinery, Melnichnaya Street, 31, Kirov 610025, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Research Institute of Electrical Carbon Products, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO NIIEI; —AO Nauchno Issledovatelskii I Proektno-Tekhnologicheskii Institut Elektrougolnykh Izdelii; —JSC NIIEI; and—JSC Scientific Research and Project-Technical Institute of Electrical Carbon Products. 1 Gorki Lane, Elektrougli, Moscow Oblast, 142455, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Research Institute of Electronic and Mechanical Devices, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO NII Elektronno-Mekhanicheskikh Priborov;—JSC NIIEMP;—JSC SRIEMI; and—Penza Scientific Research Institute of Electro-Mechanical Devices. 44 Karakozova Street, Penza, Penza Oblast, 440600, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Research Institute of Electronic Engineering Materials, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —AO Nauchno-Issledovatelskiy Institut Materialov Elektronnoi Tekhniki;—AO NIIMET; and—JSC NIIMET. 1 Gagarina Street, Kaluga, Kaluga Oblast, 248650, Russia; and 17 Second Academicheskiy Drive, Building 3G, Rooms 27-40, Kaluga, Kaluga Oblast, 248033, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Research Institute of Gas Discharge Devices Plasma, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —AO Nauchno-Issledovatelskiy Institut Gazorazriyadnikh Priborov Plazma;—AO Plasma; and—JSC Plasma. 24 Tsiolkovskogo Street, Ryazan, Ryazan Oblast, 390023, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Research Institute of Industrial Television Rastr, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —AO Nauchno Issledovatelskii Institut Promyshlennogo Televideniya Rastr; and —AO NIIPT Rastr. 39 Bolshaya Sankt-Peterburgskaya Street, Veliky Novgorod, Novgorod Oblast, 173001, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) This license requirement may be overcome by License Exception GOV under § 740.11(b)(2) and (e) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99 and for items for U.S. Government supported use in the International Space Station (ISS), which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Research Institute of Modern Telecommunication Technologies, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —AO Nauchno-Issledovatelski Institut Sovremennykh Telekommunikatsionnykh Tekhnologii; —AO NII STT; —JSC NII STT; —NII Modern Telecommunications Technologies; —NDI Modern Telecommunication Technologies; and —Smolensk Research Institute of Modern Telecommunications Technologies. 10 Novo-Leningradskaya Street, Smolensk, Smolensk Region, 214012, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Research Institute of Precision Mechanical Engineering, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —AO Nauchno-Issledovatelskiy Institut Tochnogo Mashinostroeniya;—AO NIITM; —NIITM PAO; —OJSC Scientific and Research Institute of Precision Engineering; —Research Institute of Precision Machine Manufacturing; and —Scientific and Research Institute of Precision Mechanical Engineering. 10 Panfilovsky Avenue, Zelenograd, Moscow, 124460, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Scientific-Research Institute “Vektor”, Ul. Akademika Pavlova, d. 14-A, Saint Petersburg, 197376, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 48534, 9/26/18.
Joint Stock Company Scientific-Technical Center for Electronic Warfare, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —JSC Scientific-Technical Center for Electronic Warfare; —Aktsionernoe Obschestvo Nauchno-Tekhnicheski Tsentr Radioelektronnoi Borby; —AO Nauchno-Tekhnicheski Tsentr Radioelektronnoi Borby; —Scientific And Technical Center of Radioelectronic Warfare; —JSC NTTS REB; and —AO NTTS REB. 29 Vereiskaya Street, Building 135, Moscow, 121357, Russia; and 2 Bolshoi Smolenski Avenue, Letter A, Floor 5, Room 9N, Room 28, Saint Petersburg, Russia; and 31A Konstruktorov Street, Voronezh, Voronezh Region, 394038, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Scientific Technical Institute Radiosvyaz, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —AO NTI Radiosvyaz; —JSC Scientific Technical Institute Radiosvyaz; —NTI Radio; —NTI Radiosvyaz; and —Scientific Technical Institute Radiosviaz. Kirovsky Plant, 29-N Marshal Govorov Street, St. Petersburg, 198095, Russia, and Kirovsky Plant, 29-N Marshal Govorov Street, St. Petersburg, 198097, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Shipbuilding Corporation Ak Bars, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —AO SK Ak Bars; —AO Sudostroyitelnaya Korporatsiya Ak Bars; and—JSC SC Ak Bars. 9a, Zavodskaya Street, Zelenodolsk, Republic of Tatarstan, 422546, Russia; and 5 Zavodskaya Street, Zelenodolsk, Republic of Tatarstan, 422546, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Special Design Bureau of Computer Engineering, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —AO Spetsialnoe Konstruktorskoe Byuro Vychislitelnoi Tekhniki; and—AO SKB VT. 1 Maksima Gorkogo Street, Pskov, Pskov Oblast, 180007, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Special Design Bureau of Control Means, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —AO Spetsialnoe Proektno-Konstruktorskoe Byuro Sredstv Upravleniya; and—AO SPKB SU. 9 Vagzhanovski Lane, Office 315, Tver, Tver Oblast, 170100, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Special Design Bureau Turbina, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —AO SKB Turbina; —AO Spetsialnoe Konstrucktorskoe Byuro Turbina; and—JSC Turbina SDB. 2B Lenin Avenue, Chelyabinsk, Chelyabinsk Oblast, 454007, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Special Industrial and Technical Base Zvezdochka., a.k.a., the following one alias: —SPTB Zvezdochka. 2/7 Komsomolskaya Street, Polyarnyy, Murmansk Oblast 184650, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Joint Stock Company Special Relay System Design and Engineering Bureau, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —AO SKTB RT; and —AO Spetsialnoe Konstruktorsko-Tekhnologicheskoe Byuro Po Releinoi Tekhnike. 55 Nekhinskaya Street, Veliky Novgorod, Novgorod Oblast, 173025, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Special Research Bureau of Moscow Power Engineering Institute, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —JSC Special Research Bureau of Moscow Power Engineering Institute; —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Osoboe Konstruktorskoe Byuro Moskovskogo Energeticheskogo Instituta; —AO Osoboe Konstruktorskoe Byuro Moskovskogo Energeticheskogo Instituta; —Osoboe Konstruktorskoe Byuro Moskovskogo Energeticheskogo Instituta, OAO; —AO OKB MEI; and —JSC OKB MEI. 14 Krasnokazarmennaya Street, Moscow, 111250, Russia; and 1 Komarova Street, Galenki, Oktyabrski Region, Primorsky Region, 692564, Russia; and Tolstoukhovo Building, Alferovskoe Village, Kalyazinski Region, 171550, Russia; and Dolgoe Ledovo Building, Shchelkovo, Moscow Region, 141143, Russia. (See alternate addresses under Crimea Region of Ukraine.) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Specialized Vector Experimental Design Bureau for Systems and Means of Measurement, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO SOKB Vektor; —JSC SOKB Vector; —SOKB Vector; and —Spetsializirovannoe Opytno-Konstruktorskoe Byuro Sistem I Sredstv Izmereni Vektor. 33 Mironovskaya Street, Building 26, Floor 4, Premises 2, Moscow, 105318, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company SPMDB Malachite, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Sankt-Peterburgskoe Morskoe Byuro Mashinostroeniya Malakhit, PAO. 18 Frunze Street, Saint Petersburg, 196135, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Joint Stock Company STAR, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —UEC-STAR; and —JSC STAR. 140a Kuybyshev Street, Perm, Perm Krai, 614990, Russia, and, 93 Komsomol Prospect, GSP, Perm 614990, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Joint Stock Company State Missile Center Named After Akademika V.P. Makeyeva, a.k.a, the following seven aliases: —JSC Gosudarstvenny Raketny Tsentr Imeni Akademika V.P. Makeeva; —JSC GRTS Makeyeva; —JSC Makeyev Design Bureau; —JSC State Rocket Center Named After Akademika V.P. Makeyeva; —Makeyev State Missile Center; —Makeyev State Rocket Center; and—Makeyev Rocket Design Bureau. 1 Turgoyakskoe Highway, Miass, Chelyabinsk Region, 456300, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) This license requirement may be overcome by License Exception GOV under § 740.11(b)(2) and (e) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99 and for items for U.S. Government supported use in the International Space Station (ISS), which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company State Scientific Research Institute Kristall, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO GOSNII Kristall; —AO Gosudarstvenny Nauchno-Issledovatelski Institut Kristall; —OAO GOSNII Kristall; and —OJSC Kristall State Research Institute. 6 Zelenaya Street, Dzerzhinsk, Nizhny Novgorod Oblast, 606007, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company State Scientific-Research Institute of Instrument Making, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —AO GosNIIP; —Gosudarstvenny Nauchno-Issledovatelski Institut Priborostroeniya; —GosNIIP; —JSC State Scientific-Research Institute of Instrument Making; and —State Research Institute Engineering. 125 Mira Avenue, Moscow, 129226, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Strommashina Shield, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Strommashina Shchit; —JSC Strommashina Shield; —JSC Strommashina Shchit; and —AO Strommashina Shchit. 10A 22 Partsezda Street, Samara, Samara Region, 443022, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Sukhoi Design Bureau Company, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —OAO Kompaniya Sukhoi OKB Sukhogo; —OKB Sukhoi Design Bureau OAO; and —Sukhoi OKB; —Sukhoi Design Bureau; —Sukhoi Design Bureau Aviation Scientific-Industrial Complex; and —Sukhoi Design Bureau JSC. P.O. Box 604, 23A Polikarpova Street, Moscow, 125284, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Svetlana Semiconductors, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —AO Svetlana Poluprovodniki; and —Svetlana Semiconductors Stock Company. 27, Engels Prospect, Saint Petersburg 194156, Russia; and 6 Akademika Valieva Street, Building 2, Floor/Premises 1/I, Room 28, Zelenograd, Moscow, 124460, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Taganrog Plant Priboy, 13, Bolshaya Bulvarnaya Street, Taganrog, Rostovskaya Oblast, 347913. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Tekhnodinamika, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —AO Tekhnodinamika; —JSC Aviation Equipment; and —JSC Technodynamics. 35 Bolshaya Tatarskaya Street, Building 5, Moscow, 115184, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company the Institute of Electronic Control Computers Named After I.S. Bruk, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —AO INEUM IM. I.S. Bruk; —Institut Elektronniykh Upravlyayushchikh Mashin IM. I.S. Bruka; and—JSC INEUM. 24 Vavilova Street, Moscow, 119334, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Tula Cartridge Works a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO TPZ; —AO Tulski Patronny Zavod; —Tulammo; and —Tula Cartridge Plant. 47B Marata Street, Tula, Tula Oblast, 300004, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Tula Machine-Building Plant, a.k.a., the following nine aliases: —AO Tulskiy Mashinostroitelniy Zavod; —AO Aktsionernaya Kompaniya Tulamashzavod; —OAO AK Tulamashzavod; —JSC Production Association Tulamashzavod; —PO Tulamashzavod; —Proizvodstvennoe Obedinenie Tulamashzavod; —Tulmash; —Tulamashzavod; and —Tulamashzavod Production Association. 2 Mosina Street, Tula, Tula Oblast, 300002, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Ulan-Ude Aviation Plant, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —AO Ulan-Udenski Aviatsionny Zavod; —AO UUAZ; —Ulan-Ude Aircraft Aviation Plant; —Ulan-Ude Aviation Factory; —JSC UUAP; and —UUAZ. 1 Khorinskaya Street, Ulan-Ude, Republic of Buryatia, 690009, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Ulyanovsk Cartridge Works, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —AO Ulyanovski Patrionny Zavod; —AO UPZ; —JSC UCW; —The Ulyanovsk Cartridge Works; —ULN Ammo; and —Ulyanovsk Cartridge Plant. 1 Shofyorov Street, Ulyanovsk, Ulyanovsk Oblast, 432007, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Ulyanovsk Mechanical Plant, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO Ulyanovsk Mekhanicheskiy Zavod; —AO UMZ; —JSC UMP; and —UMP. 94 Moskovskoye Highway, Ulyanovsk, Ulyanovsk Oblast, 432008, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Ural Automotive Plant, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —AO Avtomobilniy Zavod Ural; —AO AZ Ural; —Automobile Plant Ural JSC; —JSC UAP; and —Ural AZ. 1 Avtozavodtsev Avenue, Miass, Chelyabinsk Oblast, 456304, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Ural Works of Civil Aviation, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —AO Uralskiy Zavod Grazhdanskoi Aviatsii; —AO UZGA; —Ural Civil Aviation Plant; —JSC Ural Works of Civil Aviation; and —UWCA. 2G Bakhchivandzhi Street, Yekaterinburg, Sverdlovsk Oblast, 620025, Russia; and 262M Belinskogo Street, Yekaterinburg, Sverdlovsk Oblast, 620089, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Uraltransmash, a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —AO Uralski Zavod Transportnogo Mashinostroeniya; —Uralski Zavod Transportnogo Mashinostroeniya, PAO; —JSC Uraltransmash; —Uraltransmash; —Urals Plant of Transportation Machinery Joint Stock Company; —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Uralskiy Zavod Transportnogo Mashinostroeniya; and —The Urals Plant of Transportation Engineering. 29 Frontovykh Brigad Street, Yekaterinburg, Sverdlovsk Region, 620017, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Vega Radio Engineering Corporation, a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —AO Kontsern Vega; —Concern Vega; —JSC Concern Vega; —JSC Radio Engineering Corporation Vega; —Kontsern Radiostroeniya Vega; —Vega Radio Engineering Corporation; and —JSC Vega Corp. 34 Kutuzovsky Avenue, Moscow, 121170, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Verkhneturinsky Machine Building Plant, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —JSC Verkhneturinsky Machine Building Plant; —Joint Stock Company Verhneturinsky Mashinostroitelny Zavod; —JSC Verhneturinsky Mashinostroitelny Zavod; —Open Joint Stock Company Verhneturinsky Mashinostroitelny Zavod; and —AO VTMZ. 2 Mashinostroitelei Street, Verkhnyaya Tura, Sverdlov Region, 624320, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company VNIIR-Progress, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —JSC VNIIR—Progress; —AO VNIIR—Progress; —AT VNIIR—Progress; —OAO VNIIR—Progress; and —Open Joint Stock Company VNIIR-Progress. 4 I.Ya. Yakoleva Avenue, Cheboksary, Republic of Chuvashia, 428024, Russia; and 29 Serebryanicheskaya Embankment, Moscow, 109208, Russia; and 18 Bogatyrski Avenue, Building 1, Room A/310, Saint Petersburg, 197348, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Vodtranspribor, 64 Serdobolskaya Street, Saint Petersburg, 197342. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Vologda Optical and Mechanical Plant, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO Vologodsky Optiko Mekhanichesky Zavod, —AO VOMZ; —JSC VOMZ; and —OAO VOMZ. 54 Maltseva Street, Vologda, Vologda Oblast, 160009, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Volsk Mechanical Plant, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —JSC Volsk Mechanical Plant; —OAO Volski Mekhanicheski Zavod; —JSC VMP; and —AO VMP. 10 Vidim Town, Volsk, Saratov Region, 412921, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Voronezh Semiconductor Devices Factory Assembly, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —AO Voronezhsky Zavod Poluprovodnikovykh Priborov-Sborka; —AO VZPP-S; and —JSC VZPP-S. 119a Leninsky Avenue, Voronezh, Voronezh Oblast, 394033, Russia; and 119a Leninsky Avenue, Voronezh, Voronezh Oblast, 394007, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Votkinsk Machine Building Plant, 2 Kirov Street, Votkinsk, Udmert Republic, 427430, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Joint Stock Company Votkinsky Zavod, 2 Kirova Street, Votkinsk, Udmurt Republic, 427430, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Joint Stock Company Vyatka Machine-Building Enterprise Avitek, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —AO VMP AVITEK; —Avitek Vyatskoe Machine Building Enterprise JSC; —JSC VMP AVITEC; —JSC Vyatskoe Mashinostroitelnoe Predpriyatie Avitek; and —Vyatka Machinery Plant Avitec JSC. 1A Oktyabrskiy Avenue, Kirov, Kirov Oblast, 610047, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Yaroslavl Radio Factory, a.k.a., the following two aliases: — PJSC Yaroslavl Radioworks; and — YRZ. 13 Margolina Street, Yaroslavl, 150010, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Joint Stock Company Zavod Elecon, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —AO Zavod Elekon; —Elecon Plant; —Elecon; —JSC Zavod Elecon; and —OAO Zavod Elecon. 58 Korolenko Street, Kazan, Republic of Tatarstan, 420094, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Zavod Korpusov, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Zavod Korpusov; —PAO Zavod Korpusov; —OAO Zavod Korpusov; and —JSC Zavod Korpusov. 1 Zavodskaya Street, Vyksa, Nizhegorod Region, 607061, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Zavod No. 9, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —AO Zavod No. 9; —JSC Factory No. 9; —No. 9 Plant; —UVZ Zavod No. 9; —Zavod 9; and —Zavod 9 Yekaterinburg. 1-I Pyatiletki Square, Yekaterinburg, Sverdlovsk Region, 620012, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Joint Stock Company Zavolzhskiy Plant of Caterpillar Tractors, a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —AO Zavolzhskiy Zavod Gusenichnikh Tyagachey; —AO ZZGT; —JSC ZCVP; —JSC Zavolzhsky Plant of Caterpillar Tractors; —Zavolzhsk Plant of Caterpillar Tractors; —Zavolzhsky Crawler Vehicle Plant; and —ZZGT. 1 Zheleznodorozhnaya Street, Zavolzhe, Nizhny Novgorod Oblast, 606522, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Zelenodolsk Plant Named After A.M. Gorky, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —AO Zelenodolskiy Zavod Imeni A.M. Gorkogo; —JSC Zelenodolsk Plant Named After Gorky; —OAO Zelenodolskiy Zavod Imeni A.M. Gorky; —Zelenodolsk Factory; —Zelenodolsk Plant Named After A.M. Gorky, JSC; and —Zelenodolsk Shipyard. 5 Zavodskaya Street, Zelenodolsk, Republic of Tatarstan, 422540, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Joint Stock Company Zelenograd Nanotechnology Center, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —AO ZNTTS; —AO Zelenogradski Nanotekhnologicheski Tsentr; and—ZNTC. 6 Solnechnaya Alley, Premises IX, Office 17, Zelenograd, Moscow, 124527, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Joint Stock Company Zlatoustovsky Machine Building Plant, a.k.a. the following one alias: —JSC Zlatmash. 1 Parkovy Proezd, Zlatoust, Chelyabinsk Region, 456227, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
JSC Central Research Institute of Machine Building (JSC TsNIIMash), Pionerskaya Street, 4, korpus 22, Moskovskaya obl., Korolov 141070, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR). This license requirement may be overcome by License Exception GOV under § 740.11(b)(2) and (e) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99 and for items for U.S. Government supported use in the International Space Station (ISS), which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22.87 FR 13061, 3/8/22.87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
JSC Element, 12 Presnenskaya Embankment, Office 2024, Moscow, Russia, 123112. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR).This license requirement may be overcome by License Exception GOV under § 740.11(b)(2) and (e) | Policy of denial; Case-by-case basis for items for U.S. Government supported use in the International Space Station (ISS) | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
JSC Energiya, 1 Elektrik St., Yelets, Lipetskaya Oblast, 399775, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22.
JSC GOZ Obukhov Plant, a.k.a., the following one alias:—GOZ Obukhov Plant. Prospekt Obukhovskoi Oboroni 120, Saint Petersburg, 192012, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 94968, 12/27/16.
JSC Institute of Instrumentation—Novosibirsk Plant Comintern (NPO NIIP-NZIK), Planetnaya Street 32, Novosibirsk, 630015, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 94968, 12/27/16.
JSC Kazan Helicopter Plant Repair Service, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Kazanski Vertoletny Zavod Remservis; and—KVZ Remservis. Ulitsa Tetsevskaya 14, Kazan, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
JSC ODK-Star, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —JSC “UEC-STAR”; and —AO ODK-STAR. 140A, Kuibysheva Street, Perm, 614990, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 25505, 4/11/24.
JSC Pella-Mash, 4 Tsentralnaya Street, Kirovski District, Otradnoe, Leningradskaya Oblast, Russia, 187330. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
JSC Rocket and Space Centre—Progress, Zemetsa Street 18, Samarskaya Oblast, Samara 443009, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR). This license requirement may be overcome by License Exception GOV under § 740.11(b)(2) and (e) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99 and for items for U.S. Government supported use in the International Space Station (ISS), which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22.87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
JSC Scientific Research Institute of Aircraft Equipment (NIIAO), a.k.a., the following three aliases:—SRIAE;—NIIAO; and—Aviation Instrument Scientific Research Institute Tupoleva 18, Zhukovsky, Moscow, 140182, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR). | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 94968, 12/27/16.
JSC SEZ PPT Alabuga, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Osobaya Ekonomicheskaya Zona Alabuga; —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Osobaya Ekonomicheskaya Zona Promyshlenno-Proizvodstvennogo Tipa Alabuga; and —Joint Stock Company Special Economic Zone Production and Industrial Type Alabuga. OEZ Territory, 4/1 Highway-2, Yelabuga, Republic of Tatarstan, 423601, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
JSC Shipyard Vympel, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo “Sudostroitelny Zavod “Vympel”; and—Sudostroitelny Zavod Vympel, Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo. 4 Novaya Street, Rybinsk, Rybinski District, Yaroslavskaya, Russia, 152912. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
JSC Yue Complex Service Solutions, a.k.a., the following one alias: —OOO YE KSR. 70 Obukhovskoy Oborony Avenue, Building 3A Saint Petersburg, 192029, Russia; and 34 Entuziastov Highway, Office D-2-1, Moscow, 105118, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
JSC Zavod Kopir, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Gostevoi dom “U Ostapa” Aktsionernogo Obshchestva “Zavod “Kopir” (dlya 1-KSR); —Factory “Copier” JSC; —AO Zavod Kopir; and —Zavod Kopir OAO. 10 Gagarin Str., Kozmodemyansk, Republic of Mari El, 425350, Russia; and d. 62 ul. Nekrasova, Kozmodemyansk, Mari El, 425350, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Kalashnikov Concern, a.k.a., the following eight aliases:—Concern Kalashnikov; and—Izhevskiy Mashinostroitel'nyi Zavod OAO; and—Izhmash R&D Center; and—JSC NPO Izhmash; and—NPO Izhmash OAO; and—OJSC Concern Kalashnikov; and—OJSC Izhmash; and—Scientific Production Association Izhmash Joint Stock Company. 3, Derjabin Pr., Izhevsk, Udmurt Republic, 426006, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 42455, 7/22/14.
Kalinin Machine Plant, JSC (a.k.a., Kalinin Machine-Building Plant Open Joint-Stock Company; a.k.a. Kalinin Machinery Plant-BRD; a.k.a. Mashinostroitel'NYI Zavod IM. M.I. Kalinina, G. Yekaterinburg OAO; a.k.a. Mzik OAO; a.k.a. Open-End Joint-Stock Company 'Kalinin Machinery Plant. YEKATERINBURG'; a.k.a. Otkrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Mashinostroitelny Zavod IM.M.I.Kalinina, G.Ekaterinburg) Address: 18 prospekt Kosmonavtov, Ekaterinburg 620017, Sverdlovskaya obl., Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 55612, 9/17/14.
Kaliningradnefteprodukt OOO, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Kaliningradnefteprodukt LLC; —Limited Liability Company Kaliningradnefteproduct; and —LLC Kaliningradnefteproduct 22-b Komsomolskaya Ulitsa, Central District, Kaliningrad, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 6952, 2/16/18. 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Kaluga Scientific-Research Institute of Telemechanical Devices JSC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—KNIITMU JSC. 4 Karla Marksa St., Kaluga, 248000, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22.
Kaluga Scientific Research Radio Technology Institute (KRRTI), a.k.a., the following two aliases:—KNIRTI; and—KRRTI Lenin Street 2, Zhukov, Kaluga Oblast, 249192, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 94968, 12/27/16.
Kalyazinsky Machine Building Factory—Branch of RSK MiG, 5 Industrialnaya Ultisa, Kalyazin, Tver Oblast, 171573, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
KAMAZ Publicly Traded Company, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —KAMAZ PJSC; —KAMAZ PAO;—KAMAZ PTC; and —Kamskoe Obedinenie PO Proizvodstvu Bolshegruznykh Avtomobilei Kamaz. 2 Avtozavodskiy Avenue, Naberezhnye Chelny, Republic of Tatarstan, 423827, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Kamchatgazprom, OAO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Kamchatgazprom; and —Otkrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo 'Kamchatgazprom'. d.19 ul.Pogranichnaya, Petropavlovsk-Kamchatski, Kamchatski krai 683032, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Kamensk-Uralsky Metallurgical Works J.S. Co. 5 Zavodskaya St., Kamensk Uralsky, 623405 Sverdlovsk region, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 13061, 3/8/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Karst, OOO, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Construction Holding Company Old City—Karst;—Karst Ltd.;—LLC Karst; and—Obshcestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu Karst D. 4 Litera A Pomeshchenie 69 ul. Kapitanskaya, St. Petersburg 199397, Russia; and 4 Kapitanskaya Street, Unit A, Office 69-N, St. Petersburg 199397, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 94968, 12/27/16.
Kazan Helicopter Plant PJSC, Tetsevskaya St, Kazan 420085, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Keldysh Institute of Applied Mathematics of the Russian Academy of Sciences, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Federalnoe Gosudarstvennoe Uchrezhdenie Federalny Issledovatelski Tsentr Institut Prikladnoi Metematiki I.M. Keldysha Rossiiskoi Akademii Nauk;—IPM IM. M.V. Keldisha RAN; and —KIAM RAS. 4 Miusskaya Square, Moscow, 125047, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Kinef OOO, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Kinef, LLC; —Limited Liability Company Production Association Kirishinefteorgsintez; and —LLC Kinef. d. 1 Shosse Entuziastov, Kirishi, Leningradskaya Oblast 187110, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 6952, 2/16/18. 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
KingPai Technology Int'l Co., Limited, 3 Gostnichnaya St, Moscow, Russia. (See alternate addresses under China and Vietnam). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of Denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22. 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22. 87 FR 57082, 9/16/22.
Kirill A Stekhovskiy, Zastavskaya St. 32A, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Zastavaskaya St. 15-B, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Raketnyy Bul'var 15, Moscow, Russia 129164; and 16 Raketnyy Bul'var, Moscow, Russia 129164. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Kirill Drozdov, 86 N Prospect Obukhovskoy Oborony, St. Petersburg, Russia 190000. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Kirill Pechorin Starodvorsky, 25 Red Cadets Street Letter H, Office Block 2, St. Petersburg, Russia 99034; and 130-17 Nevskiy Ave., Saint Petersburg, Russia 191036; and 16 Linia V.O., 7 Office 43, St. Petersburg, Russia 99034; and Krestovski River Quay 3, Suite 42, St. Petersburg, Russia 197376. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Kirishiavtoservis OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Limited Liability Company Kirishiavtoservis; and —LLC Kirishiavtoservis. lit A, 12 Smolenskaya Ulitsa, St. Petersburg 196084. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 6952, 2/16/18. 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Kompaniya Gaz-Alyans, OOO, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Company Gaz-Alliance LLC;—Kompaniya Gaz-Alyans, OOO; and—Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu Kompaniya Gaz-Alyans. 15 Ul., Svobody, Nizhni Novgorod, Nizhegorodskaya Obl. 603003, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 6952, 2/16/18.
Komsomolsk-na-Amur Aviation Production Organization (KNAAPO), 1 Sovetskaya Street, Komsomolsk-on-Amur, Khabarovsky Krai, Russia 618018. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Konstruktorskoe Byuro Priborostroeniya Otkrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo, a.k.a., the following five aliases:—Instrument Design Bureau; and—JSC KBP Instrument Design Bureau; and—KBP Instrument Design Bureau; and—KBP Instrument Design Bureau Joint Stock Company; and—KBP OAO. 59 Shcheglovskaya Zaseka ul., Tula 300001, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 42455, 7/22/14.
Kranark LLC, 14 Professora Kachalova Street, Letter A, Saint Petersburg, Russia, 192019. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Krasnoyarskgazprom, PAO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Krasnoyarskgazprom; and —Publichnoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo 'Krasnoyarskgazprom. d.1 pl.Akademika Kurchatova, Moscow 123182, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Kulon Scientific-Research Institute JSC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—NII Kulon JSC. 14 Murmankiv proezd, Moscow, 129075, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
LabInvest, Remenskoe, Street 100-Y, Svirskoy Division, D 52, 140104, Moscow Oblast, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR | See §§ 744.2(d), 744.3(d), and 744.4(d) of this part | 86 FR 12531, 3/4/21.
Laboratory Systems and Technologies LTD, a.k.a., the following one alias:—LST LTD. Burdenko St., 14 Bld. A 4 Stage, Office 1 Room 3, 119121, Moscow Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11) | See §§ 744.2(d), 744.3(d), and 744.4(d) | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Lazurnaya, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Lazurnaya'; and —“Lazurnaya”. d.103 prospekt Kurortny, Sochi, Krasnodarski krai 354024, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Lengiproneftekhim OOO, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Institut Po Proektirovaniyu Predpriyaty Neftepererabatyvayuschey I Neftekhimicheskoy Promyshlennosti, Limited Liability Company; —Limited Liability Company Oil Refining and Petrochemical Facilities Design Institute; and —LLC Lengiproneftekhim. d. 94, Obvodnogo Kanala, nab, St. Petersburg 196084, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 6952, 2/16/18. 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Lev Anatolyevich Yershov (Ershov), Ul. Tsvetochnaya, d.25, k.3, St. Petersburg, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Limited Liability Company Analytical Manufactory, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —LLC Analytical Manufactory; —Obshchestvo S Organichennio Otyetstvennostyu Analiticheskaya Maufaktura; —OOO Analiticheskaya Maufaktura —Analytical Manufaktory; and —Analytikal Manufactory. 9 Rublevshoe Highway, Floor 1, Room I, Room 10B, Moscow, 121108, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Limited Liability Company Center for Specialized Production OSK Propulsion, a.k.a., the following one alias: —OSK Propulsion. 3 Galerny Proezd, Letter A, Pomesh. 75, Gavan Vn. Ter. G. Municipal Okrug, Saint Petersburg, 199226, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Limited Liability Company Concord Management and Consulting, a.k.a. the following three aliases:—Konkord Menedzhment I Konsalting, OOO;—LLC Concord Management and Consulting; and—Obshchestvo S Ogrannichennoi Otvetstvennostyu Konkord Menedzhment I Konsalting d. 13 Litera A, Pom. 2-N N4, Naberezhnaya Reki Fontanki, St. Petersburg 191011, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 28408, 6/22/17. 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
Limited Liability Company Eliars, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu Eliars; —OOO Eliars; and —Eliars LLC. 8 Konstruktora Guskova Street, Building 1, Zelenograd, Moscow, 124460, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Limited Liability Company Eluent Laboratories, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —LLC Eluent Laboratories; —Obshchestvo S Organichennio Otyetstvennostyu Elyuentlaboratoriz; —OOO Elyuentlaboratoriz; —Elyuentlaboratoriz LTD; and —Elyuent Laboratories. 4 Ivana Franko Street, Building 2, Floor 2, Room N1, Room N27, Moscow, 121108, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Limited Liability Company Foreign Economic Association Technopromexport, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Obschestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvestvennostyu Vneshneekonomicheskoe Obedinenie Tekhnopromeksport;—OOO VO Technopromexport; and—OOO VO TPE. Novyi Arbat Str. 15, Building 2, Moscow 119019, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 6952, 2/16/18.
Limited Liability Company Hotu Tent, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Hotu Tent LLC; —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu Khotu Tent; —OOO Khotu Tent; and —Khotu Tent. 31/1 Kirova Street, Apartment 92, Yakutsk, Republic of Sakha (Yakutiya), 677027, Russia; and 1 Truda Street, Yakutsk, 677000, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Limited Liability Company K.ARMA, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —LLC K.ARMA; —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu K.ARMA; and —OOO K.ARMA. 40 Mechnikova Street, Apartment 27, Kolomna, Moscow Region, 140412, Russia; and 354A Oktiabrskoy Revolutsii Street, Kolomna, 140408, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Limited Liability Company Laggar Pro, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu Laggar Pro; —OOO Laggar Pro; and —Laggar Pro. 190B Ovrazhnaya Street, Room 19, Afonino Village, Kstovski District, Nizhegorod Region, 607680, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Limited Liability Company Lipetsk Mechanical Plant, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu Lipetski Mekhanicheskii Zavod; —OOO Lipetskii Mekhanicheskii Zavod; —Lipetskii Mekhanicheskii Zavod; —Lipetsk Mechanical Plant; and —OOO LMZ. 1 Krasnozavodskaya, Office 201, Lipetsk, Lipetsk Region, 398006, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Limited Liability Company Medstandart, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Medstandart, LLC; —Obshchestvo S Organichennio Otyetstvennostyu Medstandart; —Medstandart, OOO; and —Medstandart. 16 Varshayshoe Highway, Building 2, Floor 1, Room I, Room 3, Moscow, 117105, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Limited Liability Company Moscow Arms Company, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu Moskovskaya Oruzheinaya Kompaniya; —OOO Moskovskaya Oruzheinaya Kompaniya; —Moskovskaya Oruzheinaya Kompaniya; —Moscow Arms Company LLC; and —Bespoke Gun. 1 Novoslobodskaya Street, Possession 1, Mytishchi, Moscow Region, 141009, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Limited Liability Company NPK Aerokon, a.k.a. the following three aliases: —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu NPK Aerokon; —OOO NPK Aerokon; and —Aerokon. 18 Tsentralnaya Street, Office 1, Chernyshevka Village, Chernyshevskoe Settlement, Vysokogorski Micro Region, Republic of Tatarstan, 422710, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Limited Liability Company Plaz, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu Plaz; —OOO Plaz; and —Plaz. 22 Politekhnicheskaya Street, Letter V, Room 1-N, Saint Petersburg, 194021, Russia; and 8A Elektrodny Passage, Office 22, Moscow, 11123, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Limited Liability Company Research and Production Association Radiovolna, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —LLC NPO Radiovolna; —OOO Nauchno-Proizvodstvennoe Obedinenie Radiovolna; and—OOO NPO Radiovolna. 3 22nd Liniya, Building 1M, Premises 1N, Office 618, Vasilevskiy Island, Municipal District No. 7, Saint Petersburg, 199106, Russia; and 1-3P Kozhevennaya Liniya, Premises 1N, Saint Petersburg, 199106, Russia; and 55 Kingiseppskoe Highway, Avtovo, St Petersburg, 198320, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Limited Liability Company Research and Production Company Makrooptika, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu Nauchno-Proizvodstvennaya Kompaniya Makrooptika; —OOO Nauchno—Proizvodstvennaya Kompaniya Makrooptika; —OOO NPK Makrooptika; —Matrooptika; and —Makrooptika Ltd. 5 Yablochkova Avenue, Building 47, Floor 2, Room 2.5, Ryazan, Ryazan Region, 390023, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Limited Liability Company RSB-Group, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —LLC Intelligence Technologies; —OOO RSB-Grupp;—Razvedyvatelnye Tekhnologii OOO; and —Russian Security Systems. 3 Dnepropetrovskaya Street, Building 5, Floor 1, Premises III, Room 8, Office 6-6, Moscow, 117525, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Limited Liability Company Rusmedtorg, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —LLC Rusmedtorg; —Obshchestvo S Organichennio Otyetstvennostyu Rusmedtorg; —OOO Rusmedtorg; and —Rusmedtorg. 2/21 Lenskaya Street, Floor 5, Room III, Room 2, Moscow, 129327, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Limited Liability Company Special Design and Technology Bureau Plastic, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu Spetsialnoe Konstruktorsko-Tekhnologicheskoe Byuro Plastik; —OOO Spetsialnoe Konstruktorsko-Tekhnologicheskoe Byuro Plastik; —SKTB Plastik; —OOO Plastik—Finans; and —Plastik. Building 4K, Saratovskoe Highway, Syzran, Samarskaya Region, 446008, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Limited Liability Company Zavod Spetsagregat, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —LLC Zavod Spetsagregat; —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu Zavod Spetsagregat; and —OOO Zavod Spetsagregat. 10A, 8 Lyulya Street, Miass, Chelyabinsk Region, 456304, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
LLC A-K-S, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Obshchestvos Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu “A-K-S”; and —OOO “A-K-S” Revolution Highway, Building 69, Saint Petersburg, 195279, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial. See § 746.8 of the EAR | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
LLC Alabuga Exim, Street 102, Sh-2 Avenue, territory of the special economic Alabuga special economic zone, Alabuga, Republic of Tatarstan, 423601, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
LLC Alabuga Machinery, Pom.110, Str. 5/12, Ul. Sh-2 (Oez Alabuga Ter.), Elabuzhski Raion, Tatarstan Resp., 423601, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
LLC Center, 21 Yablochkova Street, Building 3, Floor 3, Premise VIII, Room 1L, Moscow, Russia, 127322. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
LLC Drake, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Liliani-Tekhnolodzhi, OOO. Pom.126, Str. 5/12, Ul. Sh-2 (Oez Alabuga Ter.), Elabuzhski Raion, Tatarstan Resp., 423601, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
LLC Fibersense, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —LLC Fibersens; and —OOO Fibersense. 6A Sosnovaya Alley, Building 5, Zelenograd, Moscow, 124489, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b) and 746.8(a)(3). of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 75174, 12/8/22.
LLC Koksokhimtrans, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Koksokhimtrans Ltd. Rakhmanovskiy lane, 4, bld.1, Morskoy House, Moscow 127994, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
LLC Ruschemtrade, St. Mashinostroitelnyj, 3, Rostov-on-Don 344090, Russia; and 86/1, Temryuk, Krasnodar 353500, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 94968, 12/27/16.
LLC Volgogradpromproyekt, a.k.a. the following five aliases: —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu “Volgogradpromproekt”; —OOO Volgogradpromproyekt; —OOO Volgogradpromproekt; —OOO VPP; and —VPP. 47 Promyslovaya Street, Volgograd, Volgograd Region, 400057, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Lukoil, OAO (a.k.a. Lukoil; a.k.a. Lukoil Oil Company; a.k.a. Neftyanaya Kompaniya Lukoil OOO; a.k.a. NK Lukoil OAO) Address: 11 Sretenski boulevard, Moscow 101000, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 79 FR 55612, 9/17/14. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Lutch Design Office JSC, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Lutch Design Bureau JCS;—Lutch JSC; and—KB-Lutch. 25 Pobeda Blvd. Rybinsk, Yaroslavskaya Oblast, 152920, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Lytkarino Machine-Building Plant, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Branch of UEC-UMPO Lytkarino Machine-Building Plant. Turaevo Promzona, Building 9, Lytkarino, Moscow Oblast 140080, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Lyudmila V Talyanova, Zastavskaya St. 32A, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Zastavskaya St. 15-B, St. Petersburg, Russia; and Raketnyy Bul'var 15, Moscow, Russia 129164; and Krestovski River Quay 3, Suite 42, St. Petersburg, Russia 197376. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Machine Building Group Limited Liability Company, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Machine Building Group; —OOO Mashinostroitelnaya Gruppa; —OOO MG; and —MG LLC. 15 Rochdelskaya Street, Building 8, Floor 2, Premises II, Room 45, Moscow, 123022, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Magnetar, Pr. Yuria Gagarina 2, Office 801, St. Petersburg, Russia 196105. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Main Directorate of Deep-Sea Research, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—GUGI;—Hydrographic Service of the Navy; and—Department of Navigation and Oceanography of the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation. 8, 11 line of Vasilievsky Island, St. Petersburg, 199034 Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Main Intelligence Directorate, a.k.a., the following three aliases—Glavnoe Razvedyvatel'noe Upravlenie;—GRU; and—Main Intelligence Department. Khoroshevskoye Shosse 76, Khodinka, Moscow, Russia; and Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation, Frunzenskaya nab., 22/2, Moscow 119160, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 82 FR 724, 1/4/17. 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Margarita Vasilyevna Kuznetsova, Udaltsova 85A 210, Moscow, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Mariya Lomova, 9 Lipovaya alleya, St. Petersburg, Russia 197183. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Mark Gofman, P.O. Box 242, St. Petersburg, Russia 196240. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Maxim Yevgenevich Ivakin, 106 Kuybyshev Str, Office 68, Yekaterinburg, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
MaxiTechGroup, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—MaksiTekhGrup; and—JSC MaksiTekhGrup, 4 Pokhodnyy Dr, Bldg 1, 4th floor, Room 417, Moscow, Russia 125373; and 46 Chkalova St., Zhukovskiy, Moscow Region, 140180. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
MCST Lebedev, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Moscow Center of SPARC Technologies;—AO MTSST; and—ZAO Elbrus-MCST. 1 Nagatinskaya Street, Moscow, 117105, Russia; and 51 Leninski Prospekt, Moscow, 119049, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Medanta, 2 Sovetskaya Street, Aramil, Sverdlovsk Oblast, 624002, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Media-Invest OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Limited Liability Company Media-Invest; and —LLC Media-Invest. 17 Bld 1 Zubovsky Blvd, Moscow 119847, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 6952, 2/16/18. 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Megel, 26 General Belov St, Office 1010, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 1010, Moscow, Russia 115583. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Mekom, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Mecom, Ulitsa Mitinskaya 36/1, Moscow, Russia 125430. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Melkom, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Melcom; and—Melkom JSC, Ulitsa Ordzhonikidze 10, Moscow, Russia 119071; and 10 Ordjonikidze Street, Moscow, Russia 119071; and Ultisa Polyany 9/6, Moscow, Russia 117042; and Polijani str., 9-6, 117042, Moscow, Russia; and 33 Ulitsa Marshala Tukhachevskogo, Suite 231, Moscow, Russia 123154; and Bolshaya Semenovskaya, 40/505, Moscow, Russia 107023; and Ulitsa Metallurgov, 29, Str. 1, Komnata Pravleni, Moscow, Russia 111401. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Meteor Plant JSC, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —AO Zavod Meteor; and —Joint Stock Company Meteor Plant. 1 Gorkogo Street Volzhskiy, Volgograd Oblast, 404130, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22. 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Miass Machine-Building Factory, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—AO Miasskiy mashinostroitelnyy zavod; and—JSC MMZ. 1 Turgoyakskoye Highway, Miass, Chelyabinksaya Oblast, Russia, 456300. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
MicroComponent LLC, 2/1, 4th Zapadny proezd, Zelenograd, Russia 124460; and 4 Yunost Square, NPZ, Suite 1-7, Zelenograd, Russia 124482; and 4th West Passage Dr., Building 2, 124460, Zelenograd, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Microelectronic Research and Development Center Novosibirsk, a.k.a. the following two aliases:—KTIPM; and—IFP KTIPM SO RAN. 8 Nikolayeva Street, Novosibirsk, Russia,630090; and 2/1 Akademika Lavrentyeva Avenue, Novosibirsk, Russia, 630090. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
MIG Engineering, a.k.a., the following one alias:—MIG Electronics, 26 General Belov Str, Office 1010, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 1010, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 53 Scherbakovskaya St, Bldg 3, Moscow, Russia 105187. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Mikhail Davidovich, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Mike Davidovich, P.O. Box 242, St. Petersburg, Russia 196240. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Mikhail Karpushin, 5A North Street, Saransk, Republic of Mordovia, Russia 43006; and 53 Sherbakovskaya Street, Building 3, Office 509, 105318 Moscow, Russia; and 26 General Belov St Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 60 Bolshevistskaya St., Office 905, Saransk, Republic of Mordovia, Russia; and 60 Bolshevistskaya St., Office 910, Saransk, Republic of Mordovia, Russia; and 5a Severnaya Street, Saransk, Republic of Mordovia, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Mikhail Vinogradov, 4 Pokhodnyy Dr, Bldg 1, 4th Floor, Room 417, Moscow, Russia 125373. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Milandr EK OOO, Georgievskiy Prospekt, 5, Floor 2, Room 40, Zelenograd, Moscow, 124498, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b), and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 75174, 12/8/22.
Milandr ICC JSC, Office 38, Premises 1, 2nd Floor, 5, Georgievskiy Prospekt, Zelenograd, 124498, Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b), and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 75174, 12/8/22.
Military Industrial Company Limited Liability Company, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —OOO Voenno-Promyshlennaya Kompaniya; —OOO VPK; and —VPK LLC. 15 Rochdelskaya Street, Building 8, Floor 3, Unit I, Rooms 10-14, Moscow, 123376, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Militech AO, Building 46, Mytnaya Street, Structure 5, Room 19, Moscow, 115162, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Militech Trade LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias: —MTT. Building 46, Mytnaya Street, Structure 5, Room 20, Moscow, 115162, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Milur IS, OOO, Georgievskiy Prospekt, 5, Zelenograd, Moscow, 124498, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b), and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 75174, 12/8/22.
Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation, including the Armed Forces of Russia and all operating units wherever located. This includes the national armed services (army, navy, marine, air force, or coast guard), as well as the national guard and national police, government intelligence or reconnaissance organizations of the Russian Federation. All address located in Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR). The license requirements under this entry also extend to any export, reexport and transfer (in-country) to the entity wherever located worldwide | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Mitishinskiy Scientific Research Institute of Radio Measuring Instruments, a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —Federalnoe Gosudarstvennoe Byudzhetnoe Uchrezhdenie Vserossiiskii Nauchno-Issledovatelskii Institut Radioelektroniki; —Federal State Unitary Enterprise MNIIRIP; —FGBU VNIIR; —FGBU Vserossiiskii Nauchno-Issledovatelskii Institut Radioelektroniki; —FGUP MNIIRIP, —FSBI VNIIR; and —Mytishchi Research Institute for RF Measurement Instruments. 2A Kolpakova Street, Building B1, Floor 3, Office 86,87, Mytishchi, Moscow Oblast, 141002, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Molot-Oruzhie, OOO, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Molot-Oruzhie' (f.k.a., Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu Proizvodstvenno Instrument Kachestvo) 135 ul. Lenina, Vyatskie Polyany, Kirov Obl. 612960, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 28408, 6/22/17.
Moscow Aviation Institute, a.k.a., the following one alias: —MAI. 4 Volokolamskoe Shosse, Moscow1 125993, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Moscow Communications Research Institute JSC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—MNIIS JSC. 34 Kutuzovsky prospect, Moscow, Russia, 121170; and 3/2 Kirovogradsky proezd, Moscow, 109044, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—MIPT; and—MFTI. Dolgoprudny Campus: 9 Institutskiy per., Dolgoprudny, Moscow Region 141701, Russia; and Zhukovsky Campus: Ulitsa Gagarina 16, Zhukovsky, Moscow Region 140180, Russia; and Moscow Campus 1 Stroyeniye 1, Klimentovsky Pereulok, Moscow Region 115184, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Moscow Institute of Thermal Technology, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO Koporatsiya Moskovskiy Institut Teplotekhniki; —JSC Corporation MIHT; —JSC Corporation Moscow Institute of Heat Technology; and —MITT. 10 Berezovaya Alley, Moscow, 127273, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22. 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Moscow Order of the Red Banner of Labor Research Radio Engineering Institute JSC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—MNIRTI JSC. 2/1 Boshoy Trehsvyatitelskiy per., Moscow, 109028, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
MPI VOLNA, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Mashpriborintorg-Volna; and—Mashpriborintorg Wave. 4A Plekhanova Street, Unit XII, Floor 2, Moscow, Russia, 111123; and 29 Entuziastov Highway, Balashikha, Moskovskaya Oblast, Russia, 143907. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Mytishchinski Mashinostroitelny Zavod, OAO (a.k.a., JSC Mytishchinski Machine-Building Plant; a.k.a. Otkrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo 'Mytishchinski Mashinostroitelny ZAVOD') Address: 4 ul. Kolontsova Mytishchi, Mytishchinski Raion, Moskovskayaobl 141009, Russia. Alt. Address: UL Koloncova, d.4, Mytishi, Moscow region 141009, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 55612, 9/17/14.
N.A. Dollezhal Order of Lenin Research and Design Institute of Power Engineering, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—JSC Order of Lenin Research and Design Institute of Energy Engineering named after N. A. Dollezhal; and—JSC NIKIET. 2/8 Krasnosel'skaya Street, Moscow, Russia, 107140. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Nasosy Ampika, 3-ya Institutskaya St. Bld. 15 Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial. See § 746.8(b) | 87 FR 76926, 12/16/22.
National Research Center Kurchatov Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —The Kurchatov Institute; and —NITs Kurchatovsky Institute. 1 Akademika Kurchatova Square, Moscow, 123182, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Neft-Aktiv LLC, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —OOO Neft —Aktiv; and —RN-Aktiv OOO. Ulica Kaluzhskaya M., d., 15, str. 28, Moscow 119071, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Nerpa Shipyard, a.k.a., the following one alias:—SRZ Nerpa. Snezhnogorsk, Murmansk Region, Russia, 184682. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Neva Electronica, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Neva Elektronika, Pr. Yuria Gagarina 2, Office 801, St. Petersburg, Russia 196105; and 5 Professora Popova St., Saint Petersburg, 197022. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Niigazekonomika, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Niigazeconomika; and —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Nauchnoissledovatelski Institut Ekonomiki I Organizatsii Upravleniya V Gazovoipromyshlennosti'. d. 20 korp. 8 ul. Staraya Basmannaya, Moscow 107066, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Nikolai Bragin, 2A Chernyshevskogo St., St. Petersburg, Russia 191123; and Zastavkaya St. 32A, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Zastavskaya st. 15-B, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Raketnyy Bul'var 15, Moscow, Russia 129164; and 16 Raketnyy Bul'var, Moscow, Russia 129164. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Nilco Group, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Nilfam Khazar Co. Unit 439, 2 Mozhayskoe Road, Moscow, Russia. (see alternate addresses under Belarus and Iran). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 48534, 9/26/18.
NM-Tekh, 4A Solnechnaya, House 6, Floor 1, Apartment XII, Office 4, Zelenograd, Moscow Oblast, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Nobel Brothers Shipyard Limited Liability Company, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Nobel Brothers Shipyard; —Nobel Brothers Shipyard LLC; and —OOO Verf Bratev Nobel. 60 Pyatiletki Street, Rybinsk, Yaroslavl Region, 152909, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
North-West Technics LLC, West Park Business Center, Highway Ochakovskoe 34, Office 201, Moscow, Russia 119530; and Konstitutsii Square 7, Building A Office 71H, Saint Petersburg, 196191, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Nova Technologies, a.k.a., the following five aliases:—Novie Technologies; and—Nova SPB; and—New Technology; and—Nova Technologies Co., Ltd.; and—Novyye Tekhnologii, LLC, 25 Red Cadets Street Letter H, Office Block 2, St. Petersburg, Russia 99034; and 130-17 Nevskiy Ave., Saint Petersburg, Russia 191036; and 16 Linia V.O., 7 Office 43, St. Petersburg, Russia 99034; and Krestovski River Quay 3, Suite 42, St. Petersburg, Russia 197376. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Novastream Limited, a.k.a. the following two aliases: —Novastream LTD; and —Novastrim LLC. Building 2A, Suites 50 and 51, Severnaya Street, Vladimir, 600007, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Novax Group S.A., Koptevskaya Ulitsa 67, Moscow, 125239, Russia. (See alternate addresses under Costa Rica, Ecuador, Panama, and Venezuela). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 80957, 11/21/23.
Novgorodnefteprodukt OOO, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Limited Liability Company Novgorodnefteproduct; —LLC Novgorodnefteproduct; and —Novgorodnefteprodukt LLC. d. 20 Germana Ulitsa, Veliky Novgorod, Novgorodskaya Oblast 173002, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 6952, 2/16/18. 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Novorossiysk Shipyard JSC, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—OAO Novosrossiyskiy sudoremontnyy zavod; and—JSC NSRZ. Sukhumskoye Highway, Novorossiysk, Krasnodarskiy Krai, Russia, 353902. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
NPC Granat, 22 Polytechnicheskaya Street, Saint Petersburg, Russia 194021. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
NPO Electronic Systems, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—NPO Electric Systems;—NPO Elektronnye Sistemy; and—NPOS ES. 6 Kievskaya Street, St. Petersburg, Russia, 196084. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
NPO High Precision Systems JSC, Kievskaya Street 7, Moscow, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
NPO Splav JSC, 33 ul. Shcheglov Kaya Zaseka Tula, 300004 Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
NPP Istok, 19 Zavodskaya, Chernukha, Arzamasski District, Nizhegorodskaya Oblast, Russia, 607210; and 4A Okruzhnoi Thoroughfare, Fryazino, Moscovskaya Oblast, Russia, 141190; and 2A Vokzalnaya, Fryazino, Moskovaskaya Oblast, Russia, 141190. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
NPP Start, a.k.a., the following one alias:—NPP Start AE Yaskina. 24 Pribaltiskaya St., Yekaterinburg, 620007, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
NTC Metrotek, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Metrotek;—Metrotek Inzhiniring;—Nauchno-Tekhnicheskee Tsentr Metrotek; and—NTTS Metrotek. 21 Yablochkova Street, Moscow, Russia, 127322; and 27 Kolomyazhsky Avenue, 4th Floor, St. Petersburg, Russia, 197341. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
NtechLab LLC, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —NtechLab; and —ntech lab. Novolesnaya Ulitsa, Dom 2, Pomeshchenie 1/3, Moscow, 127055, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 99703, 12/11/24.
Nuclin LLC, Serebryakova Proezd 14 Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial. See § 746.8(b) | 87 FR 76926, 12/16/22.
OAO All-Russia Research Institute of Radio Equipment (JSC VNIIRA), a.k.a., the following three aliases:—OJSC VNIIRA;—OAO All-Russia Research Institute of Radio Technology; and—All-Russian Scientific Research Institute of Radio Equipment Shkipersky Protok 19, V.I. St. Petersburg, 199106, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 94968, 12/27/16.
OAO GosNIIkhimanalit, a.k.a., the following one alias:—State Research Chemical-Analytical Institute. 17 Bumazhnaya Street, St. Petersburg, Russia, 190020. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
OAO Radiofizika, a.k.a., the following one alias:—PJSC Radiophysics. 10 Geroyev Panfilov St., Moscow, 125363, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
OAO Ship Repair Center 'Zvezdochka', a.k.a., the following four aliases:—'Zvezdochka' Shipyard;—AO Ship Repair Center 'Zvezdochka';—Joint Stock Company Ship Repair Center 'Zvezdochka;' and—Ship Repair Center Zvezdochka. 12, proyezd Mashinostroiteley, Severodvinsk, Arkhangelskaya Oblast 164509, Russia. (See alternate address in Crimea region of Ukraine). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
OAO Svetlovskoye Predpriyatiye Era, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—JSC Svetlovskoye Predpriyatiye Era; and—SP Era. 1 L. Chaikinoi St., Svetly, Kaliningradskaya obl., 238340, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
OAO Volgogradneftemash (f.k.a. Dochernee Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Otkrytogo Tipa Volgogradneftemash Rossiiskogo Aktsionernogo Obshchestva Gazprom), a.k.a., the following two aliases:—JSC Volgogradneftemash; and—Otkrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Volgogradneftemash 45 Ulitsa Elektrolesovskaya, Volgograd, Volgogradskaya Oblast 400011, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 80646, 12/28/15.
Obninsk Research and Production Enterprise (ORPE), a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO Obninskoe NPP Tekhnologiya IM. A.G. Romashina; —AO ONPP Tekhnologiya IM. A.G. Romashina; —Joint Stock Company Obninsk Research and Production Enterprise Technologiya Named After A.G. Romashin; and —JSC ORPE Technology Named After A.G. Romashin. 15 Kievskoe Highway, Obninsk, Kaluga Oblast, 249031, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 83 FR 48534, 9/26/18. 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19. 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Oboronlogistika, OOO, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Oboronlogistics Limited Liability Company;—Oboronlogistics LLC;—Oboronlogistika LLC; and—Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'Oboronlogistika' d. 18 str. 3 prospekt Komsomolski, Moscow 119021, Russia; and ul. Goncharnaya, house 28, building 2, Moscow 115172, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 28408, 6/22/17.
Oboronprom OJSC, 29/141 Vereiskaya Street, Moscow, 121357 Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 13061, 3/8/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu NEOBIT, a.k.a., the following one alias:—NEOBIT, OOO. d. 21 litera G, ul. Gzhatskaya, St. Petersburg, 195220, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 37903, 7/19/21.
Oceanos, 19/2 Esenina Street, Saint Petersburg, 194295, Russia; and 16/2 A-H Engelsa Prospekt, Saint Petersburg, 195156, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 48534, 9/26/18.
OJSC Achinsk Refinery, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Achinsk Refinery; and —OAO Achinsk Oil Refinery VNK. Achinsk Refinery industrial area, Bolsheuluisky district, Krasnoyarsk territory 662110, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
OJSC Angarsk Petrochemical Company, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Angarsk Refinery. Angarsk, Irkutsk region 665830, Russia; and 6 ul. K. Marksa, Angarsk 665830, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
OJSC Kuybyshev Refinery, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Kuibyshev Refinery; and —OJSC Kuibyshev Refinery. 25 Groznenskaya st., Samara 443004, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR. | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
OJSC Novokuybyshev Refinery, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Novokuibyshevsk Refinery. Novokuibyshevsk, Samara region 446207, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
OJSC Orenburgneft, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —OAO JSC Orenburgneft; and —Orenburgneft. Magistralnaya St., 2, Buzuluk, the Orenburg Region 461040, Russia; and st. Magistralynaya 2, Buzuluk 461040, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
OJSC Pella Shipyard, a.k.a., the following one alias:—OJSC Leningrad Shipyard Pella. 4 Tsentralnaya St., Kirovski raion, Otradnoe, Leningradskaya Obl., 187330, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22.
OJSC RN Holding, a.k.a., the following one alias: —RN Holding OAO. 60 Oktyabrskaya ul., Uvat 626170, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
OJSC Samotlorneftegaz, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Samotlorneftegaz; and —Samotlorneftegaz JSC. Lenina St. 4, the Tyumen Region, Khanty-Mansiysk, Autonomous District, Nizhnevartovsk 628606, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
OJSC Sovfracht, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—PJSC 'Sovfracht';—Sovfracht JSC; and—Sovfrakht. Rakhmanovskiy lane, 4, bld.1, Morskoy House, Moscow 127994, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
OJSC Syzran Refinery, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Open Joint-Stock Oil and Gas Company Syzran; and —Syzran Refinery. 1 Astrakhanskaya st., Syzran, Samara region 446009, Russia; and Moskvorechje street 105, Building 8, Moscow 115523, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
OJSC TSRY, a.k.a., the following one alias:—OJSC Tuapse Ship Repair Plant. 11 Maksima Gorkogo Street, Tuapsinski District, Tuapse, Krasnodarski Krai, Russia, 352800. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
OJSC Ural Production Company Vector (UPP Vector), a.k.a., the following two aliases:—JSC 'SCP' Vector; and—JSC PPM Vector Gagarin Street 28, Ekaterinburg, 620078, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 94968, 12/27/16.
OKB Luch Limited Liability Company, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —OKB-Luch; —OKB Luch LLC; and —OOO OKB Luch. 2B Kazanskaya Street, Arzamas, Nizhniy Novgorod Region, 607220, Russia; and 89 Arzamasskaya Street, Arzamas, Nizhniy Novgorod Region, 607249, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Oksana Timohina, 6 Aptekarskiy Prospekt, Office 710, St. Petersburg, Russia 197376; and Naberezhnaya Chernoi Rechki 61-1, St. Petersburg, Russia 197342; and 7 Belovodskiy Ln, St. Petersburg, Russia 194044; and Belovodskyi Per, 7, St. Petersburg, Russia 194044; and Naberegnaja Chernoj Rechki 61-1, 197342, Saint Petersburg, Russia; and 16 Parkovaya 30, Office 319, Moscow, Russia 105484. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Oleg Koshkin, 26 General Belov St Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova St Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 53 Sherbakovskaya Street, Building 3, Office 509, 105318 Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Oleg Kunilov, 4 Savelkinskiy Dr., Suite 511-512, Zelenograd, Russia 124482. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Olga Naumova, 53 Sherbakovskaya St, Bldg 3, Moscow, Russia 105187; and 26 General Belov Str, Office 1010, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 1010, Moscow, Russia 115583. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Olga Pakhmutova, 53 Sherbakovskaya Street, Building 3, Office 509, 105318 Moscow, Russia; and 26 General Belov Str, Office 1010, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 1010, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 General Belov St Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Olga Petrovna Kuznetsova, 33 Ulitsa Marshala Tukhachevskogo, Suite 231 Moscow, Russia 123154; and Ordzhonikidze 10, Moscow, Russia 119071; and 10 Ordjonikidze Street, Moscow, Russia 119071; and Ulitsa Polyany 9/6, Moscow, Russia 117042; and Poljani str., 9-6, 117042 Moscow, Russia; and 9 Polyany Street, Suite 6, Moscow, Russia 117042; and Bolshaya Semenovskaya, 40/505, Moscow, Russia 107023; and Ulitsa Metallurgov, 29, Str. 1, Komnata Pravleni, Moscow, Russia 111401. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Olga Ruzmanova, 53 Sherbakovskaya Street, Building 3, Office 509, 105318 Moscow, Russia; and 26 General Belov St Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 General Belov Str, Office 19, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 19, Moscow, Russia 115583. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Olga V Bobrikova, 8 Pushkinskaya St., Apt. #47, St. Petersburg, Russia 196607; and Zastavskaya St 32A, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Zastavskaya St. 15-B, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Raketnyy Bul'var 15, Moscow, Russia 129164; and 16 Raketnyy Bul'var, Moscow, Russia 129164. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Olid Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—OOO Solid ul Mira 4, Novorossiysk, Krasnodarskiy kray 630024, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 94968, 12/27/16.
Omsk Motor-Manufacturing Design Bureau, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —FL UEC-Saturn—OMKB; —Omsk Engine Design Bureau; —Branch of PAO UEC-Saturn Omsk Motor-Manufacturing Design Bureau; and —Omskoe mashinstroitel'noe KB. 163 Lenin avenue, Yaroslavl region, Rybinsk, 152903, Russia and 3 Okruzhnaya Road, Omsk, Omsk Oblast, 644021, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Omsk Production Union Irtysh JSC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—OmPO Irtysh. 18 Gurt'yeva St., Omsk, 644060, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Omsk Scientific-Research Institute of Instrument Engineering JSC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—JSC ONIP. 231 Maslennikova St., Omsk, 644009, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
OOO Adis, 48 Prospekt Makeeva, Miass, Chelyabinskaya Oblast, 4563200, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
OOO Alabuga Development, Pomeshch. 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, k. 4, ul Sh-2, ter. OEZ Alabuga, gorod Elabuga, m.r-n Elabuzhski Republic of Tartarstan, 423601, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
OOO Alabuga-Volokno, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Alabuga-Fibre LLC. Territoriya Oez Alabuga, Ul. Sh-2 Korp. 4/1, Yelabuga 423600, Russia; and Ul. Sh-2 Oez Alabuga Terr. Str 11/9, Volga 423601, Russia; and Ul. Krzhizhanovskogo D. 14, Korp. 3, Moscow, 117218, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g)3, 746.8(a)(3), and 744.2l(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
OOO Alb.Aero a.k.a., the following one alias: —Alb.Aero LLC. 29A, Building 17 Floor 2 Room 1, M.K. Tikhonravova St., Yubileiny Microdistrict, Korolyov, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g)3, 746.8(a)(3), and 744.2l(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
OOO Albatross, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —OOO Albatros; and —Albatross LLC. Sh-1 St., Building 8/1, SEZ Alabuga, Yelabuga, Tatarstan, Russia; and Sh-1 St., Building 4/1 First Floor, SEZ Alabuga, Yelabuga, Tatarstan, Russia; and Sh-1 St., Building 5/2 Room 253, SEZ Alabuga, Yelabuga, Tatarstan, Russia; and Bldg. 34 St. Mykluho-Maklay Moscow, 117229, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g)3, 746.8(a)(3), and 744.2l(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
OOO Analit Products, 26th-line V.O., dom. 15/2 lit. A, office 9.06, St. Petersburg, Russia 199106. | For all items subject to the EAR | See §§ 744.2(d), 744.3(d), and 744.4(d) of this part | 86 FR 12531, 3/4/21.
OOO Assistagro, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Assistagro LLC. 35 Valovaya Street, Room 256, Wall Street Business Center, Moscow, 115054, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g)3, 746.8(a)(3), and 744.2l(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
OOO Aviation Service Int'l, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Aviation Services Int'l; and —Aviation Service International. 154 Block 1 Building 57, Privolnaya Street, Moscow, Russia 109453; and #301, Building 15, B. Dimitrovka St, Moscow, 125009, Russia; and #313, Block 11 Building 1, Partiyny Pereulok, Moscow, 125009, Russia; and #603, Block 1 Building 8A, Ryazanski Prospekt, Moscow, Russia; and Privolnaya Str., Dom 57, Kor 1, Moscow, Russia. (See alternate address under Cyprus) | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
OOO Center for Non-Destructive Testing Technologies Sovtest, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Sovtest TsTNK; and —Sovtest NDT. 135 Karl Marks Street, Kursk, Kursk Oblast, 305000, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
OOO Druzhba,Ul. Profsoyuznaya d.3 Balei,Zabaikalski Kr., 673450, Russia; and Ul. Golosova, 30, Kv. 59, Toliatti, Samara Oblast, 445021, Russia; and 114 Ul. Nikolaia Gogolia, Bugulma, R-N Bugulminskii, Republic of Tatarstan, 433230, Russia; and D. 440 Kv. 41, Ul. Karla Marksa Izhevsk, Udmurtia Republic 426011, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g)3, 746.8(a)(3), and 744.2l(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
OOO 'DSK', a.k.a., the following one alias:—OOO 'Dorozhnaya Stroitelnaya Kompania'.' Stroitelnaya Street, 34, village of Kesova Gora, Tver Oblast 171470, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
OOO Elkomtekh (Elkomtex), Shkapina Street, 32/34 D, St. Petersburg, Russia 198095. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
OOO GEA, Pom.36, Str. 5/12, Ul. Sh-2 (Oez Alabuga Ter.), Elabuzhski Raion, Tatarstan Resp., 423601, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
OOO Geomiragro, 5 Kolontsova St., Premises 302, Mytishchi, Moscow Oblast, 141009, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g)3, 746.8(a)(3), and 744.2l(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
OOO IAZ, 2 Ul Ordzhonikidze, Liter Yu Tsokolny Etazh 10 Kab. 11, , Gorod Izhevsk, Udmurtskaya Resp, 426063, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
OOO Intertech Instruments, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Intertek Instruments. 3/2 Novopeschanaya Street, Moscow, Russia 125057. | For all items subject to the EAR | See §§ 744.2(d), 744.3(d), and 744.4(d) of this part | 86 FR 12531, 3/4/21.
OOO Kaspersky Group, a.k.a., the following eight aliases: —Kaspersky Group; —Kaspersky Group Limited; —Kaspersky Group Limited Liability Company; —Kaspersky Group LLC; —Kaspersky Group Ltd; —Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu Gruppa Kompanii Kasperskogo; —OOO Gruppa Kompanii Kasperskogo; and —OOO Kaspersky Group of Companies. 39A Leningradskoe Highway, Business Center Olimpiya Park, Building 2, Moscow, 125212, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 52363, 6/24/24.
(OOO) Microelectronic Production Complex (MPK) Milandr, Georgievskiy Prospekt, 5, Floor 3, Room 1, Room 13, Zelenograd, Moscow, 124498, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b), and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 75174, 12/8/22.
OOO OMP, 31/1 Stanislavskogo Street, Floor 1, Office 2, Novosibirsk, Novosibirskaya Oblast, 630097, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 76129, 11/6/23.
OOO Planar, Office 1, Dom 76, Likhvintseva St., Izhevsk, Republic of Udmurt, Russia 426034; and 8th March Street, Dom 16, Izhevsk, Republic of Udmurt, Russia 426034; and Dom 19, Bazisnaya St., Izhevsk, Republic of Udmurt, Russia 426034. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
OOO Sertal, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Sernia;—Serniya; and—Sertal LLC. 21 Yablochkova Street, Building 3, Floor 3, Apartment VIII, Room 11, Moscow, Russia, 27322. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
OOO SMU5, Kosmonavtov, D. 9 Kv., Korolev St., Moscow, 141075, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g)3, 746.8(a)(3), and 744.2l(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
OOO Sovtest Comp, a.k.a., the following one alias:—SOVTEST. Sokolovo-Meshcherskaya Street, Building 14, Office 9, 125466 Moscow, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
OOO 'STG-EKO', a.k.a., the following one alias:—'STG-EKO' LLC. Street Zastavskaya Building 22, Part A, Saint Petersburg 196084, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
OOO Teson, a.k.a., the following one alias:—OOO TecoH. D. 65 Korp. 1, Ul. Profsoyuznaya Moscow, 117342 Russia; and 49 Vyborgskaya Waterfront, Office 703, St. Petersburg, Russia 194044. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
OOO Trade-Component, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Treyd Komponent Tikhvinsky Lane, Building 11, Bldg 2, Room 29 127055 Moscow City, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
OOO Ural-Trast, 440 Karla Marksa St., Apt. 41, Izhevsk, Udmurt Republic, 426011, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g)3, 746.8(a)(3), and 744.2l(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
OOO Vest-Ost, a.k.a. the following one alias: —West-Ost. 21 Gotvalda Street, K. 2, Porn. 17, Ekaterinburg, Sverdlovskaya Oblast, 620107, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Open Joint Stock Company 20 Aviation Repair Plant, a.k.a., the following one alias: —20 ARZ. 11 Gatchinskoye Shosse, Pushkin, Saint Petersburg, 196603, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Open Joint Stock Company 32 Repair Plant of Flight Support Equipment, a.k.a., the following one alias: —32 RZ SOP. 10 Gospitalnaya Street, Spassk-Dalny, Primorsky Krai, 692243, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Open Joint Stock Company 170 Flight Support Equipment Repair Plant, a.k.a., the following one alias: —170 RZ SOP. 2 Meditsinskaya Street, Nizhny Novgorod, Nizhny Novgorod Oblast, 603104, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Open Joint Stock Company 275 Aviation Repair Plant, a.k.a., the following one alias: —275 ARZ. 141 Imeno Dzherzhinskogo Street, Krasnodar, Krasnodar Krai, 350051, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Open Joint Stock Company 308 Aviation Repair Plant, a.k.a., the following one alias: —308 ARZ. 118-V Lezhnevskaya Street, Ivanovo, Ivanov Oblast, 153035, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Open Joint Stock Company 322 Aviation Repair Plant, a.k.a., the following one alias: —322 ARZ. 5 Zhukovskogo Street, Vozdvizhenka, Ussuriisky district, Primorsky Krai, 692557, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Open Joint Stock Company 325 Aviation Repair Plant, a.k.a., the following one alias: —325 ARZ. 42 Tsiolkovskogo Street, Taganrog, Rostov Oblast, 347916, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Open Joint Stock Company 680 Aircraft Repair Plant, a.k.a., the following one alias: —680 ARZ. 2a Bazarnaya Street, Apartment 2, Belogorsk, Amur Oblast, 676853, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Open Joint Stock Company 720 Special Flight Support Equipment Repair Plant, a.k.a., the following one alias: —720 RZ SOP. 6 Krasnoarmeyskaya Street, Roslavl, Roslavlsky Region, Smolensk Oblast, 216507, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60022, 10/4/22.
Open Joint Stock Company Aero Engine Scientific and Technical Company Soyuz, a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —Otkrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Aviamotorny Nauchno-Tekhnicheski Kompleks Soyuz; —OAO Aviamotorny Nauchno-Tekhnicheski Kompleks Soyuz; —Moskovskoye Nauchno-Proizvodstvennoye Obyedineniye Soyuz; —JSC AMRC Soyuz; —OAO AMRC Soyuz; —AESTC Soyuz; and —Soyuz. 2/4 Luzhnetskaya Embankment, Moscow, 119270, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Open Joint Stock Company Aviadvigatel, a.k.a., the following one alias:—AVI. Komsomolsky Prospekt 93, Perm, 614990, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 48534, 9/26/18.
Open Joint Stock Company Balashikhinskiy Liteyno Mekhanicheskiy Zavod, a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —Otkrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Balashikhinskiy Liteyno Mekhanicheskiy Zavod; —OAO Balashikhinskiy Liteyno Mekhanicheskiy Zavod; —OJSC Balashikha Gasting-Mechanical Plan; —Balashikha Gasting-Mechanical Plant; —OAO BLMZ; —BLMZ; and —Balashikha. 4 Entuziastov Highway (Zapadnaya Promzona Territory), Balashikha, Moscow Region, 143912, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Open Joint Stock Company Degtyaryov Plant, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —OAO Zavod imeni V.A. Degtyareva; —OAO ZiD; —Degtyaryov Factory; —OJSC ZiD; and —V.A. Degtyarev Plant. 4 Truda Street, Kovrov, Vladimir Oblast, 601900, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Open Joint Stock Company Ilyushin Aviation Complex, a.k.a., the following nine aliases: —AK Imeni S.V. Ilyshina AO; —JSC Ilyushin Aviation Complex; —OAO Ilyushin Aviation Complex; —OJSC IL; —OJSC Ilyushin Aviation Complex; —PAO Aviatsionny Kompleks IM. S.V. Ilyushin a; —PAO IL; —PJSC IL; and —PJSC Ilyushin Aviation Complex. 45G Leningradsky Avenue, Moscow, 125190, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Open Joint Stock Company Information Technology and Communication Systems, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—OJSC Infoteks; and—OJSC Infotecs. Proezd Petrovsko-Razumovski Star, d. 1/23 str. 1 Business Center “Vympel,” Moscow, 127287, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 48534, 9/26/18.
Open Joint Stock Company Khabarovsk Radio Engineering Plant, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —AO Khabarovskiy Radiotekhnicheskiy Zavod; —AO KHRTZ —JSC Khabarovsk Radio Engineering Plant; —KHRTZ PAO; and —OAO KHRTZ. 8 Kedrovy Lane, Building V, Khabarovsk, Khabarovsk Territory, 680041, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Open Joint Stock Company Kontsern Izhmash, a.k.a., the following one alias:—OJSC Kontsern Izhmash. 3 Deryabin Proezd, Izhevsk, Udmurt Republic 426006, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15.
Open Joint Stock Company Machine Building Plant Arsenal, a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —Otkrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Mashinostroitelnyi Zavod Arsenal; —OAO Mashinostroitelnyi Zavod Arsenal; —OJSC Machine Building Plant Arsenal; —Arsenal Machine Building Plant; —MZ Arsenal PAO; —MZ Arsenal OAO; and —MZ Arsenal. 1-3 Komsomola Street, Saint Petersburg, 195009, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Open Joint Stock Company Mariyskiy Machine-Building Plant, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —AO Mariyskiy Mashinostroitelnyi Zavod; —AO MMZ; —JSC Mari Machine Building Plant; —MARI MMZ; —OAO Mariyskiy Mashinostroitelnyy Zavod; and —OAO MMZ. 15 Suvorova Street, Yoshkar-Ola, Republic of Mari-El, 424003, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Open Joint Stock Company Russian Systems Corporation, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —JSC Russian Systems Corporation; —OAO Korporatsiya Russkiye Systemy; —OJSC Russian Systems Corporation; and —Russian Systems Corporation. 23 Pravda Street, Moscow, 127015, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Open Joint Stock Company Scientific and Production Corporation of Precision Instruments Engineering (NPK-SPP), a.k.a., the following one alias:—OJC RPC PSI. Aviamotornaya Ulitsa 53, Moscow, 111024, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 48534, 9/26/18.
Open Joint Stock Company Scientific and Production Enterprise Pulsar, a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —AO Nauchno-Proizvodstvennoe Predpriyatie Pulsar; —AO NPP Pulsar; —Enterprise SPE Pulsar JSC; —JSC NPP Pulsar; —JSC SPC Pulsar; —OAO NPP Pulsar; and —SPE Pulsar. 27 Okruzhnoy Drive, Moscow, 105187, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Open Joint Stock Company Volgograd Radio-Technical Equipment Plant, a.k.a., the following one alias: —VZ RTO. 60 Novodvinskaya Street, Volgograd, Volgograd Oblast, 400010, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Optron JSC, 53 Sherbakovskaya St., Office 37, Moscow, 105187, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Orelmetallpolimer LLC, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —OMP LLC, and —OOO Orelmetallpolimer. 1 Yu Avtomagistral Street, Mtsensk, Orovskaya Oblast, 303032, Russia; and 45 Olkhovskaya Street, Building 3, Floor 1, Room 1/10, Munitsipalny Okrug Krasnoselski, Moscow, 105066, Russia; and 19B Novosushchevskaya Street, Moscow, 127055, Russia; and 24/8 Vatutina Street, Office 204, Dzerzhinsk, Nizhny Novgorod Oblast, 606019, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 76129, 11/6/23.
Otkrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Vneshneekonomicheskoe Obedinenie Tekhnopromeksport, a.k.a., the following seven aliases:—Joint Stock Company Foreign Economic Association Tekhnopromexport;—JSC Tekhnopromexport;—JSC Vo Tekhnopromexport;—OJSC Technopromexport;—Open Joint Stock Company Foreign Economic Association Tekhnopromexport;—VO Tekhnopromeksport, OAO; and—“JSC TPE” d. 15 str. 2 ul. Novy Arbat, Moscow 119019, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 80646, 12/28/15.
P.A. Voronin Lukhovitsk Aviation Plant, branch of RSK MiG, a.k.a., the following one alias:—LAZ. Lukhovitsy District, Moscow Region, 140500, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
P.P. Shirshov Institute of Oceanology of the Russian Academy of Sciences, a.k.a., the following eight aliases: —Federalnoe Gosudarstvennoe Byudzhetnoe Uchrezhdenie Nauki Institut Okeanologii Im. P.P. Shirshova Rossiiskoi Akademii Nauk; —Institut Okanologii RAN; —Institut Okeanology imeni P.P. Shirshova RAN; —Institute of Oceanology RAN; —IO RAN; —IO RAS; —Shirshova Rossiyskoy Akademii Nauk; and —Shirshov Institute of Oceanology. 36 Nakhimovskiy Avenue, Moscow, 117218, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Papilon Systems Limited Liability Company, a.k.a., the following one alias: —OOO Sistemy Papilon. 48 Prospekt Makeeva, Miass, Chelyabinskaya Oblast, 4563200, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Pavel Grishanovich, 9 Lipovaya alleya, St. Petersburg, Russia 197183. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Pavlin Techno LLC, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —OOO Pavlin Tekhno; and —Pawlin Technologies. 13 Ul. Lenina, Apartment. 11, Dubna, Moskovskaya Obl., 141983, Russia; and 100 Dmitrovskoe Highway Moscow, Office 2307, 3rd floor building 2 Nord Khaus, Moscow, 127591, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Petersburg Electronic Company (PEC), LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Petersburg Electron-Komplekt Ltd., Zastavskaya St 32A, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Zastavskaya St. 15-B, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Raketnyy Bul'var 15, Moscow, Russia 129164; and 16 Raketnyy Bul'var, Moscow, Russia 129164. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Petersburg Electronic Company Warehouse, Zastavskaya St. 15-B, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
PF RIELTA LLC, 34B Petrogradskaya Embankment, Letter B Room 1-N, Room 208V, Posadsky Municipal District, St. Petersburg, 197046, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Pharmcontract GC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Farmkontract GC. Dubininskaya Street, 57/2, Office 306, 115054, Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR | See §§ 744.2(d), 744.3(d), and 744.4(d) of this part | 86 FR 12531, 3/4/21.
Photon Pro LLP, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Photon Pro. 3 Lodygina Street, Saransk, Mordovia Republic, Russia, 430034. B443 (See alternative address under United Kingdom) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
PJSC Beriev Aircraft Company, 1 Aviatorov Square, Taganrog 347923, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
PJSC Irkut Corporation, Regional Aircraft 26 Leninskaya Sloboda, Moscow 115280, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
PJSC Kazan Helicopters, Tetsevskaya Street, 14, Kazan, Tatarstan Republic 420085, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
PJSC Mikron, 1st Zapadniy Proezd 12/1, Zelenograd, Russia, 124460. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 83 FR 44824, 9/4/18.
PJSC Mostotrest, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Mostotrest;—Mostotrest, PAO;—Open Joint Stock Company `Mostotrest'; and—Public Joint Stock Company Mostotrest. 6 Barklaya str., bld. 5, Moscow 121087, Russia; and d. 6 str. 5, ul. Barklaya, Moscow 121087, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
PJSC Power Machines, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Open Joint Stock Company Power Machines—ZTL, LMZ, Electrosila, Energomachexport;—Publichnoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Silovye Mashiny—ZTL, LMZ, Elektrosila, Energomasheksport; and—Silovye Mashiny, PAO. 3A Vatutina St., St. Petersburg 195009, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 6952, 2/16/18.
PJSC Verkhnechonskneftegaz, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —OJSC Verkhnechonskneftegaz; and —Verkhnechonskneftegaz. Baikalskaya St., 295 B, Irkutsk 664050, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
PJSC Zvezda, 123 Babushkina Street, St. Petersburg, Russia, 192012. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Polyot Chelyabinsk Radio Plant JSC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—ChRZ Polyot (flight) JSC. 6 Ternopol'skaya St., Chelyabinsk, 454126, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
POLYUS Research Institute of M.F. Stelmakh Joint Stock Company, Building 1, 3 Vvedenskogo Street, Moscow, 117342, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Positive Technologies, 8 Preobrzhenskaya Square, Moscow, Russia 107061. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 60760, 11/4/21.
Prius Electronics LLC, 44. Bolshaya Akademicheskaya St., Building 2, Floor 9, POM 15, Room 6, 6A, Timiryazevsky Municipal District, Moscow, 127434, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Private Military Company 'Wagner', a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Chastnaya Voennaya Kompaniya 'Vagner'; —Chvk Vagner; —PMC Wagner; —Wagner Group; and —Vagner Group. 15 Zolnaya Street, Saint Petersburg, 195213, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR). The license requirements under this entry also extend to any export, reexport and transfer (in-country) to the entity wherever located worldwide | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 82 FR 28408, 6/22/17. 87 FR 78857, 12/23/22.
Production Association Strela, 26 Shevchenko Street, Orenburg, Russia, 460005. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
ProExCom, Ulitsa Artyukhina 6B, 106, Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Prom Composite Limited Liability Company, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Prom Composite; —Prom Composite LLC; and —OOO Prom Kompozit. 110 Dmitrovskoye Highway, Moscow, 127411, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Promelektronika, a.k.a. the following two aliases: —Promelectronica; and —ZAO Promelektronika. 70 Kolmogorova Street, Ekaterinburg, Sverdlovskaya Oblast, 620034, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Promtech-Dubna, JSC, Programmistov st., 4, room 364, Dubna, Moscow 141983, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 13061, 3/8/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Promtekhkomplekt JSC, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —AO TipoMTeXKOMirneKT; —Promtech Komplekt; —Promtekhkomplekt; and —Promtekhkomplekt Joint Stock Company. MKAD Greenwood Business Park building 9 floor 3, pos. Putilko o, 69 km., Moscow region, 143441, Russia; and 6/1 Griboyedov Street, OF.23, Tyumen, Tyumen Oblast, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 12171, 2/27/23.
Promtekhnologiya Limited Liability Company, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —OOO Promtekhnologiya; —ORSIS; —Orsis Shop; and —Promtekhnologiya LLC. 29 Krzhizhanovskogo Street, Building 2, Moscow, 117218, Russia; and 14 Podyomnaya St, Housing 8, Moscow, 109052, Russia; and 19 Smirnovskaya St, Moscow, Russia; and Ul. Krzhizhanovskogo, D. 29, K.2, Antresol 1, Moscow, 117218, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Pskov Distance Communications Equipment Plant, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Pskov Plant ADS JSC; and—Pskov Distance Communications Equipment (ADS) Plant JSC. 4 Yuri Gagarin Street, Pskov, Pskovskaya Oblast, 180004, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Pskovnefteprodukt OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Limited Liability Company Marketing Association Pskovnefteproduct; and —LLC Pskovnefteproduct. 4 Oktyabrsky Prospekt, Pskov 180000, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 6952, 2/16/18. 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
PT Air, 6B Ivana Fomina Street, Room 340, Saint Petersburg, 194295, Russia; and St. Rossolimo, 17, Building 5, Office 521b, St. Petersburg, 119021, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Public Joint Stock Company Agregat, a.k.a., the following one alias: —PJSC Agregat. 1 Pushkin Street, Sim, Ashinsk Region, Chelyabinsk Oblast, 456020, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Public Joint Stock Company Kremny, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —AO Gruppa Kremny EL; —CJSC Kremny AI Group; —JSC Gruppa Kremny EL; —Kremny Marketing; —Kremny Group; and —PAO Kremni. 103 Krasnoarmeyskaya Street, Bryansk, Bryansk Oblast, 241037, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Public Joint Stock Company Kurganmashzavod, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Kurganmashzavod; —OAO Kurganmashzavod; —PJSC Kurgan Machine Building Factory; —PJSC Kurgansky Mashinostroitelny Zavod; and —PJSC Kurgansky Mashinostroitelny Factory. 17 Mashinostroitely Avenue, Letter 1J, Kurgan, Kurgan Oblast, 640021, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Public Joint Stock Company Megafon, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Megafon; —PAO Megafon; and —PJSC Megafon. 41 Oruzheiny Lane, Moscow, 127006, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Public Joint Stock Company Motovilikha Plants, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Motovilikha Factories; —Motovilicha Plants; —MZ Perm; —PAO Motovilikhinskie Zavody; and —PAO Spetsialnogo Mashinostoeniya I Metallurgii Motovilikhinskie Zavody. 35 1905 Goda Street, Perm, Perm Territory, 614014, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Public Joint Stock Company Proletarsky Plant, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —PAO Proletarsky Zavod; —PJSC Proletarsky Factory; —PJSC Proletarsky Zavod; —Proletarskiy Plant; and —Proletarsky Zavod. 3 Dudko Street, Saint Petersburg, 192029, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Public Joint Stock Company Rostvertol, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —PAO Rostvertol; —PAO Rostvertol imeni B.N. Slyusarya; —PJSC Rostvertol; —Rosvertol; —Rostovskiy Vertoletnyi Proizvostvennyi Kompleks; and —Rostov Helicopter Production Complex. 5 Novatorov Street, Rostov-on-Don, Rostov Oblast, 344038, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Public Joint Stock Company Saturn, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —PJSC Saturn; —PAO Saturn; and —PAO Saturn Omsk. 41 Karl Marx Avenue, Omsk, Omsk Region, 644042, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Public Joint Stock Company Scientific Production Association Strela, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —NPO Strela; —PAO Nauchno-Proizvodstvennoe Obedinenie Strela; —PAO NPO Strela; —PJSC Research and Production Association Strela; —PJSC SPA Strela; and —SPA Strela. 6 Maxim Gorky Street, Tula, Tula Oblast, 300002, Russia; and 2 Arsenalnaya Street, Tula, Tula Oblast, 300002, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Public Joint Stock Company Scientific Production Enterprise Impulse, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —NPP Impulse; —PAO Nauchno-Proizvodstvennoe Predpriyatie Impuls; —PJSC Research and Production Association Impulse; and —PAO NPP Impulse. 102 Mira Avenue, Moscow, 129626, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Public Joint Stock Company Taganrog Aviation Scientific-Technical Complex named after G.M. Beriev, a.k.a., the following nine aliases: —Public Joint Stock Company Taganrog Aviation Scientific-Technical Complex N.A.G.M. Beriev; —PJSC Taganrog Aviation Scientific-Technical Complex N.A.G.M. Beriev; —Publichnoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Taganrogski Aviatsionny Nauchno Tekhnicheski Kompleks im. G.M. Berieva; —PJSC Tastc N.A. G. M. Beriev; —Beriev Aircraft Company; —Taganrogski Aviatsionny Nauchno-Tekhnicheski Kompleks Im. G.M. Berieva PAO; —TANTK; —Public Joint Stock Company Beriev Aircraft; and —PJSC Beriev. 1 Aviatorov Square, Taganrog, Rostov Region, 347923, Russia; and Novobessergenevka Village, Neklinovski Region, 346842, Russia; and Military Unit 45161, Shchelkovo, Moscow Region, 114104, Russia; and 101V Mira Avenue, Building 1, Moscow, 129085, Russia; and Tyumen Settlement, Tuapse, Krasnodarsk Region, 352848, Russia; and 3 Solnechnaya Street, Gelendzhik, Krasnodarsk Region, 353470, Russia; and Sergeya Shilo Street, Taganrog, Rostov Region, 347939, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Public Joint Stock Company Tutaev Motor Plant, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —OAO Tutaevski Motorny Zavod; —PAO TMZ; and —PAO Tutaevski Motorny Zavod. 1 Stroitelei Street, Tutayev, Yaroslavl Oblast, 152303, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Public Joint Stock Company UEC-Ufa Engine Industrial Association, a.k.a., the following fourteen aliases: —Public Joint Stock Company ODK—Ufim Motor—Building Production Association; —Public Joint—Stock Company ODK—Ufimskoye; —PJSC UEC-UMPO; —PAO UEC-UMPO; —ODK-Ufim Motor-Building Production Association; —PJSC ODK-UMPO; —United Engine Manufacturing Corporation-Ufa Engine Building Production Association Public Joint Stock Corporation; —UEC-Ufa Motor-Building Manufacturing Association; —ODK-UMPO Engine Building Enterprise; —Ufa Engine-Manufacturing Company; —ODK-UMPO PAO; —ODK-UMPO Engine Building Association; —Ufa Engine Building Manufacturing Company; and —UEC-UMPO. 2 Ferina Street, Ufa, Republic of Bashkortostan, 450039, Russia; and 4 Selskaya Bogorodskaya Street, Ufa, Republic of Bashkortostan, 450039, Russia; and 7 Vishnevaya Street, Moscow, 125362, Russia; and 47/1 Tukhvata Yanabi Boulevard, Ufa, Republic of Bashkortostan, 450043, Russia; and 12 Petrozavodskaya Street, Ufa, Republic of Bashkortostan, 450030, Russia; and 32/3 Volgogradski Avenue, Building 3, Building 11, Moscow, 109316, Russia; and 13 Kasatkina Street, Moscow, 129301, Russia; and Building 9, Lytkarino, Moscow Region, 140080, Russia; and Baigildino Village, Nurimanovski Region, Republic of Bashkortostan, 452443, Russia; and Atamanovka Village, Karaidelski Region, Republic of Bashkortostan, 452377, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Public Joint Stock Company United Aircraft Corporation, Bolshaya Pionerskaya, Moscow 115054, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Public Joint Stock Company Voronezh Joint Stock Aircraft Company, a.k.a., the following one alias:—VASO. 27 Tsiolkovsk Street, Vornezh, 394029, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Public Joint Stock Company Vympel Interstate Corporation, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —JSC MAC Vympel; —PAO MAK Vympel; —PAO Mezhgosudarstvennaya Aktsionernaya Korporatsiya Vympel; —Vimpel; —Vympel Interstate Commercial Corporation; and —Vympel MAK PAO Defense Corporation. 10 Geroyev Panfilovtsev Street, Building 1, Moscow, 125480, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Radel Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Firm Radel Ltd., 20 Novaya Basmannaya St., Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Radiant Group of Companies, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Radiant Group;—Radiant Elkom; and—Radiant Electronic Components. D. 65 Korp. 1, Ul. Profsoyuznaya Moscow, 117342 Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Radio Technical Institute named after A. L. Mints, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Academician A.L. Mints Radiotechnical Institute; and—Mints Radio-Technical Institute. 10/1 8th March St., North Administrative Okrug, Moscow, 127083, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Radioavtomatika, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Testprecision LLC. 33 Gagarina, Reutov, Moscow Oblast, Russia, 143966; and 1 Komsomolskaya, Podolsk, Moscow Oblast, Russia, 142100; and 5 B Maliy Avenue P.S., St. Petersburg, Russia, 194044; and 2A Severnaya, Vladimir, Vladimirskaya Oblast, Russia, 600007; and 11 Zolotorozhski Val, Moscow, Russia, 111033. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial; Case-by-case basis for U.S. Government supported space programs | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Radiotechnical and Information Systems (RTI) Concern, 127083, Moscow, 8 marta, 10/1 Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 13061, 3/8/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Radiozavod JSC, 1 Baydukova Street, Penza, Penzenskaya Oblast, 440015, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Ramil Yarullovich Magzhanov, Zastavskaya St 32A, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Zastavskaya St. 15-B, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Raketnyy Bul'var 15, Moscow, Russia 129164; and 16 Raketnyy Bul'var, Moscow, Russia 129164. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Rapart Services LLC, Aeroportovskaya str. 6/2, Solnechnogorskiy region, Dubrobki, 141580, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Rau Farm, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Raw Farm;—Rau Pharm; and—Raw Pharm. Petro-Razumovskaya Alley 18, Moscow, Russia; and Ul. Mnevniki 3⁄1, Moscow, Russia; and Denisovsky Pereulok, Bldg 8/14, Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR | See §§ 744.2(d), 744.3(d), and 744.4(d) of this part | 86 FR 12531, 3/4/21.
Ravil Mukminovich Bagautdinov, 53 Sherbakovskaya Street, Building 3, Office 509, 105318 Moscow, Russia; and 26 General Belov Str, Office 1010, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 1010, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 General Belov St Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Razryad JSC, 233 Kosta Avenue, Vladikavkaz, Severnaya Ossetia-Alania Republic, 362035, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
RCM Group, 6 Aptekarskiy Prospekt, Office 700, St. Petersburg, Russia 197376; and 30 16th Parkovaya St, Office 319, Moscow, Russia 105484; and 16-aya Parkovaya Str., 30, Office 319, Moscow, Russia 105484. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Regionsnab, 129327 ul. Lenskaya 2/21, Suite III, Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR | See §§ 744.2(d), 744.3(d), and 744.4(d) of this part | 86 FR 12531, 3/4/21.
Research and Production Association KVANT, a.k.a., the following one alias:—NPO Kvant Bolshaya Saint Petersburg 73, Velikii-Novgorod 173003, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 94968, 12/27/16.
Research and Production Association M.V. Frunze, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—NNPO Frunze; and—NZIF Gagarin Prospect 174, Nizhny Novgorod, 606950, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 94968, 12/27/16.
Research Center Module, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—NTTs Science and Technology Research Center Module; and—CJSC STC Module. 3 8 Marta 4th Street, Moscow, Russia, 123557. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Research Production Association Mars, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—RPA Mars; and—NPO Mars. 20 Solnechnaya Street, Ulyanovsk, 432022, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
RN-Komsomolsky Refinery LLC, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Komsomolsk Refinery; —LLC RN-Komsomolsk Refinery; and —RN-Komsomolski NPZ OOO. 115 Leningradskaya st., Komsomolsk-on-Amur, Khabarovsk region 681007, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
RN-Yuganskneftegaz LLC, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —RN-Yuganskneftegaz OOO; and —Yuganskneftegaz. Lenina St., 26, Nefteyugansk, Tyumen Region, 628309, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Robin Trade Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Robin Tried. 21 Yablochkova Street, Building 3, Room VII, Moscow, Russia, 127322. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Roman Eliseev, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Roman Yeliseyev, 26 General Belov Str Office 19, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 19, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 53 Sherbakovskaya Street, Building 3, Office 509, 105318 Moscow, Russia; and 26 General Belov Str, Office 1010, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 1010, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 General Belov St Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
RosAero JSC, a.k.a. the following three aliases: —AeroGeoTech; —AeroGeoTech-ROSAERO; and —AGT RosAero. Mikhalkovskaya 63B, St. 1, Moscow, 125438, Russia; and 24, Smolnaya Street, Office 1417, Moscow, 125445, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Rosneft (a.k.a. Open Joint-Stock Company Rosneft Oil Company; a.k.a. OAO Rosneft Oil Company; a.k.a. Oil Company Rosneft; a.k.a. OJSC Rosneft Oil Company; a.k.a. Rosneft Oil Company) Address: 26/1, Sofiyskaya Embankment, 117997, Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 79 FR 55612, 9/17/14. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Rosoboronexport OJSC (ROE), Strada Strominka 27, Moscow, 107076, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Rostec (Russian Technologies State Corporation), 24 Usacheva Street, Moscow, Russia, 119048. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Rostekh—Azimuth, Building 2, 5 Suite X, Room 15, Floor 2, Narishkinskaya Alleya, Moscow, 125167, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
RT-Inform Limited Liability Company, a.k.a., the following one alias: —OOO RT-Inform. 6 Turchaninov Lane, Building 2, Office 105, Moscow, 119048, Russia; and 23 Savvinskaya Embankment, Building 2, Office 613, Moscow, 119435, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Rubin Sever Design Bureau, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Rubin Sever AO;—Konstruktorskoe Byuro Rubin-Sever, PAO; and—Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo “Konstruktorskoe Byuro “Rubin-Sever“. 58 Arkhangelskoe Highway, Severodvinsk, Arkhangelskaya Oblast, Russia, 164500. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Ruselectronics JSC, Bldg. 1, 38, Berezhkovskaya Naberezhnaya, Moscow, Russia; and 12 Volkova Kosmonavta Moscow Russia; and Tverskaya, 9, Building 7, Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b), and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 75174, 12/8/22.
Russian Aircraft Corporation MiG, Leningradskoe highway, 6, building 1, Moscow, 125171, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Russian Federal Nuclear Center—All-Russian Research Institute of Experimental Physics, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—NIIIS;—Sedakova Research Institute of Measuring Systems;—NIIIS Named After Yu.E. Sedakov; and—RFNC-VNIIEF. Box No. 486, Nizhny Novgorod, Russia, 603951; and 47 Tropinina St., Nizhny Novgorod, 603137, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Russian Firearms Limited Liability Company, a.k.a., the following eight aliases: —RSO; —Russian Firearms LLC; —Russian Small Arms LLC; —Russian Shooting Weapons LLC; —Russian Firearms; —OOO Russkoe Strelkovoe Oruzhie; —Russkoye Strekovoye Oruzhiye LLC; and —Russian Small Arms Company. 2/193 Deryabin Way, Room 49, Izhevsk, Udmurt Republic, 426006, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Russian Helicopters JSC, Bolshaya Pionerskaya, 1, Moscow, 123610, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12241, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Russian Institute of Radio Navigation and Time, a.k.a., the following one alias: —RIRT. 120 Obukhovskoy Oborony, Prospekt (Avenue), Letter EC, St. Petersburg, 192012, Russia, and 19 Staraya Basmannaya Street, Building 12, Moscow, 105066, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) This license requirement may be overcome by License Exception GOV under § 740.11(b)(2) and (e). | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99 and for items for U.S. Government supported use in the International Space Station (ISS), which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Russian Space Systems (RKS), 222 Sosnovaya, Tsiolkovski, Amurskaya Oblast, Russia, 676470; and 53G Aviamotornaya, Moscow, Russia, 111024; and 51 Dekabristov, Moscow, Russia, 127490. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR). This license requirement may be overcome by License Exception GOV under § 740.11(b)(2) and (e) | Policy of denial; Case-by-case basis for items for U.S. Government supported use in the International Space Station (ISS) | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Ryazan Radio-Plant, 11 Lermontova Street, Ryazan, Ryazanskaya Oblast, 390023, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Ryazan State Instrument Enterprise (RSIE), a.k.a., the following two aliases:—RSIE; and—GRPZ Seminarskaya Street 32, Ryazan, 390000, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 94968, 12/27/16.
Rybinsk Shipyard Engineering, a.k.a., the following one alias:—ZAO Rybinskaya verf-inzhenering. 1A Sudostroitelnaya Street, Sudoverf Village, Rybinskiy Districy, Yaroslavskaya Oblast, Russia, 152978. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
R.Ye. Alekseyev Central Design Bureau for Hydrofoil Ships, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—OAO Tsentralnoye Konstructorskoye byuro po sudam na podvodnqkh krylyakh imeni R.E. Alekseyeva; and—JSC Alexeev's Hydrofoil Design Bureau. 51 Svobody Street, Nizhnyy Novgorod, Russia, 603003; and 5 Alekseeva Street, Kuznetsovo Village, Chkalovskiy District, Nizhny Novgorod Oblast, Russia, 606549; and 29 Alpiyskiy Line, St. Petersburg, Russia, 192286. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Rzhanov Institute of Semiconductor Physics, Siberian Branch of Russian Academy of Sciences, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —IPP SB RAS; and —Institute of Semiconductor Physics IM A.V. Rzhanov. 13 Prospekt Akademika Lavrentyeva, Novosibirsk, Novosibirk Oblast, 630090, Russia; and 13 Lavrentiev Avenue, Novosibirsk, 630090, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Sakhatrans LLC, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Obshchestvo S Organichennoi Otvetstvennostyu'sakha (Yakutskaya) Transportnaya Kompaniya, and—Sakhatrans OOO 14 ul. Molodezhnaya Rabochi Pos. Vanino, 682860 Vaninski, Raion Khabarovski Krai, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 24561, 5/1/14.
Salute Gas Turbine Research and Production Center, 16 Prospect Budennogo, Moscow 105118, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Salvation Committee of Ukraine, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Committee for the Rescue of Ukraine;—Savior of Ukraine Committee; and—Ukraine Salvation Committee. Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
Saransk Electronic Company, a.k.a., the following one alias:—APEX Saransk, 5A North Street, Saransk, Republic of Mordovia, Russia 43006; and 60 Bolshevistskaya St., Office 905, Saransk, Republic of Mordovia, Russia; and 60 Bolshevistskaya St., Office 910, Saransk, Republic of Mordovia, Russia; and 5a Severnaya Street, Saransk, Republic of Mordovia, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Scientific and Production Association “Lianozovo Electromechanical Plant” (NPO LEMZ), a.k.a., the following four aliases:—JSC LEMZ R&P Corporation;—OAO Design Bureau Lianozovsky Radars Moscow;—Lianozovsky Electromechanical factory; and—OAO Design Bureau Lianozovsky Radars Moscow Dmitrovskoye Shosse 110, Moscow, 127411, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 94968, 12/27/16.
Scientific-Production Association and Scientific-Research Institute of Radio-Components, a.k.a., the following one alias:—NIIRK. 3 Krymsky Val Street, Building 1, Office 1, Moscow, 119049, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Scientific Production Association Izhevsk Unmanned Systems Limited Liability Company, a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —Izmash-Bespilotnye Sistemy, OOO; —Izhmash-Unmanned Systems Company; —LLC Research and Production Association Izhbs; —OOO Nauchno-Proizvodstvennoe Obedinenie Izhevskie Bespilotnye Systemy; —OOO NPO IZHBS; —NPO IZHBS; and —Research and Production Association Izhevsk Unmanned Systems LLC. 2 Ordzhonikidze Street, Izhevsk, Udmurt Republic, 426063, Russia; and 2A Trofimova Street, Room 221, Danilovski Municipal Okrug, Moscow, 115432, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Scientific-Production Association Vint of Zvezdochka Shipyard, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —SPU Vint; and —NPO Vint. 11 Novinsky Boulevard, Moscow, 121099, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Scientific Production Center Vigstar JSC, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—AO Nauchno-proizvodstvennyy tsentr Vigstar; and—JSC SRC Vigstar. 8 1st Dorozhnyy proyezd, Moscow, 117545, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22.
Scientific Production Company Optolink, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —Limited Liability Company Research and Production Company Optolink; —OOO NPK Optolink; —LLC RPC Optolink —SPC Optolink; —NPK Optolink LLC; and —Optolink RPC LLC. 6A Sosnovaya Alley, Building 5, Zelenograd, Moscow, 124489, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b) and 746.8(a)(3). Of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 75174, 12/8/22.
Scientific-Production Enterprise Almaz JSC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—JSC NPP Almaz. 1 I.V. Panfilov St., Saratov, 410033, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Scientific-Production Enterprise “Kant”, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Kant; and—NPP Kant. 12 Talalikhina Street, Floor 7, Moscow, 109316, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Scientific Production Enterprise Prima Limited Liability Company, a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —OOO Nauchno-Proizvodstvennoe Predpriyatie Prima; —NPP Prima; —NPP Prima OOO; —Prima Research and Production Enterprise; —Prima Systems; —SPE Prima; and —SPE Prima LLC. 63 Svobody Street, Nizhniy Novgorod, Nizhniy Novgorod Oblast, 603003, Russia; and 1Zh Sormovskoe Highway, Nizhniy Novgorod, Nizhniy Novgorod Oblast, 603950, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Scientific Production Enterprise “Radiosviaz”, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Radiosviaz. 19 Dekabristov Street, Krasnoyarsk, 660021, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Scientific-Production Enterprise Salyut JSC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—JSC NPP Salyut. 7 Larina St., Nizhny Novgorod, 603950, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22.
Scientific-Production Enterprise “Svyaz”, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Svyaz; and—NPP Svyaz. 19 Shkolnaya Street, Yasnaya Polyana Village, Shekinsky District, Tulskaya Oblast, 301214, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Scientific-Production Enterprise Volna, a.k.a., the following one alias:—NPP Volna. 26 Varshavskoe Highway, Moscow, 117105, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Scientific-Production Enterprise Vostok JSC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—JSC NPP Vostok. 276, D. Kovalchuk St., Novosibirsk, 630075, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Scientific-Research Institute and Factory Platan, a.k.a., the following one alias:—NII Platan. 2 Zavodskoy Dr., Fryazino, Moscow oblast, 141190, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22.
Scientific-Research Institute “Argon”, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Argon Scientific-Research Institute JSC; and—NII Argon JSC. 4 Karla Marksa Street, Kaluga, 248000, Russia; and 125 Varshavskoe Shosse, Building 1, Moscow, 117587, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Scientific Research Institute Ferrite-Domen, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—NII Domen; and—Ferrite-Domen Co. 25/3B Zvetochnaya St., Room 417, St. Petersburg, 196006, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Scientific Research Institute NII Submikron, 5 Street 2, Proskpekt Georgievski, Zelenograd, Moscow, Russia, 124498. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial; Case-by-case basis for items for U.S. Government supported use in the International Space Station (ISS) | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Scientific Research Institute of Applied Acoustics, a.k.a., the following one alias: —NIIPA. 9/7A 9 May Street, Dubna, Moscow Oblast, 141981, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Scientific Research Institute of Applied Chemistry, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Federal Research and Production Center Research Institute of Applied Chemistry; and—NIIPH. 3 Academician Silina Street, Sergiev Posad, Moscow Oblast, Russia, 141313. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Scientific-Research Institute of Automated Systems and Communications Complexes Neptune JSC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—NII Neptune JSC. 80-1/A, 7th Line of Vasilyavskiy Island, St. Petersburg, 199178, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Scientific Research Institute of Communication Management Systems, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—NIISU; and—NIISU JSC. 25/3B Zvetochnaya St., Room 417, St. Petersburg, 196006, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Scientific-Research Institute of Electronics (NIIET), a.k.a., the following two aliases:—AO Scientific Research Institute of Electronics; and—AO Scientific Research. 119A Prospekt Leninski, Voronezh, Voronezhskaya Oblast, Russia, 394033; and 5 Starykh Bolshevikov, Voronezh, Voronezhskaya Oblast, Russia, 394033. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Scientific Research Institute of Hypersonic Systems, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Hypersonic System Research Institute of holding company Leninetz. 212 Mosckovsky Avenue, St. Petersburg, Russia, 196066. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
SCTB Engineering, Pr. Yuria Gagarina 1, Office 230, St. Petersburg, Russia 196105; and Pr. Yuri Gagarin 1, Office 230, St. Petersburg, Russia 196105. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
SDB IRE RAS, 1 Vvedenskogo Square Fryazino, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial. See § 746.8(b) | 87 FR 76926, 12/16/22.
Security 2 Business Academy, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —S2BA —Academy of Business Security. Deguninskaya Street 10 Moscow, Russia; and Novoslobodskaya Str. 14/19 Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial. See § 746.8(b) | 87 FR 76926, 12/16/22.
Sergei Evgenevich Klinov, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Sergey Yevgenyevich Klinov, 26 General Belov St Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 53 Sherbakovskaya Street, Building 3, Office 509, 105318 Moscow, Russia; and 26 General Belov St Office 1010, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova St Office 1010, Moscow, Russia 115583. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Sergei G Yuropov, Zastavskaya St 32A, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Zastavskaya St. 15-B, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Raketnyy Bul'var 15, Moscow, Russia 129164; and 16 Raketnyy Bul'var, Moscow, Russia 129164. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Sergey IONOV, Marshala Govorova Str. 40, Lit. A, Office 34, St. Petersburg 198095, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Sergey Koynov, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Sergey V. Coyne. 106 Kuybyshev Str, Office 68, Yekaterinburg, Russia. (see alternate address in China). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Sergey Nikolayevich Sanaev, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Sergei Nikoleivich Sanev, 5A North Street, Saransk, Republic of Mordovia, Russia 43006; and 53 Sherbakovskaya Street, Building 3, Office 509, 105318 Moscow, Russia; and 26 General Belov St Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 60 Bolshevistskaya St., Office 905, Saransk, Republic of Mordovia, Russia; and 60 Bolshevistskaya St., Office 910, Saransk, Republic of Mordovia, Russia; and 5a Severnaya Street, Saransk, Republic of Mordovia, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Serniya Engineering, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Sernia Engineering. 57A Vavilova Street, Floor 2, Apartment 211, Room 211-3, Moscow, Russia, 117292; and 20 Ogorodnyy Driveway, Building 27, Floor 6, Office 8, Moscow, Russia, 127322; and 167B Rodionova Street, Nizhniy Novgorod, Russia; and 270 Ligovsky Avenue, Section B, Office 2201, Saint Petersburg, Russia, 196084; and 12 Sibirskiy Tract, Building 1A, Yekaterinburg, Russia. (See alternative address under Kazakhstan). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Severnaya Verf Shipbuilding Factory, a.k.a., the following one alias:—OJSC Shipbuilding Plant Severnaya Verf. 6 Korabelnaya Street, St. Petersburg, Russia, 198096. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Severny Reid AO, 1 Pr. Wins, Severodvinsk, Russia; and d. 1 Prospekt Pobedy, Severodvinsk, Arkhangelskaya obl., 164500, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
SGM Most OOO (f.k.a., Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu SGM Most), a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu 'SGM-Most';—SGM-Bridge; and—SGM-Most, LLC. D. 10 korp. 3 ul. Neverovskogo, Moscow 121170, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
Ship Maintenance Center Zvezdochka, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Zvezdochka Ship Repair Center JSC;—Zvezdochka CS; and—FL 5 Suderemontny Zavod AO TSS Zvezdochka. 12 Mashinostroiteley Passage, Severodvinsk, Arkhangelsk Region, Russia, 164500. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Shvabe JSC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Shvabe. 176 Mira Prospekt, Moscow, 129366, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Siberian Scientific-Research Institute of Aviation N.A. S.A. Chaplygin, a.k.a., the following one alias: —SibNIA. 21 Polzunova Street, Novosibirsk, Novosibirsk Oblast, 630051, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Skolkovo Foundation, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Foundation for the Development of the Center for Elaboration and Commercialization of New Technologies; —Fond Skolkovo; —Fund Skolkovo; and —Nekommercheskaya Organizatsiya Fond Razvitiya Tsentra Razrabortki I Kommertsializatsii Novykh Tekhnologii. 4 Lugovaya Street, Skolkovo Innovation Center, Moscow, 121205, Russia; and 5 Nobelya Street, Skolkovo Innovation Center, Moscow, 121205, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Skolkovo Institute of Science and Technology, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Autonomous Non-Profit Organization for Higher Education Skolkovo Institute of Science and Technology; —Skolkovskiy Institut Nauki I Tekhnologii; and —Skoltech. 30 Bolshoi Boulevard, Skolkovo Innovation Center, Building 1, Moscow, 121205, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
SKS Elektron Broker LLC, Building 18, Block 2, Kosmonavtov Street, Moscow, 129301, Russia; and Office 316, 3rd Floor, Sheremetyevo-2 Business Center, Khimki, Moscow Oblast, 141400, Russia; and Building 8, Domodedovo Airport Territory, Domodedovo District, Moscow Oblast, 142015, Russia; and Office 301 Vnutriportovaya Street, Nakhodka, Primorsky Oblast, 692941, Russia; and Office 701 Lenina Avenue 61A, Yaroslavl, 150054, Russia; and Office 3.076, 3n1 Floor, Building 4, 37 Pulkovskoe Highway, St. Petersburg, 196210, Russia; and Office 117, Letter Zh, 5th Verkhniy Lane, Industrial Zone Pamas, St. Petersburg, 194292, Russia; and Office 415, Business Center Osipoff, 16 Tsvetochnaya Street, St. Petersburg, 196084, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Sky17 OOO, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Skai17 OOO. D. 19 K. 4 Kv. 368, Ul. Eletskaya, Moscow 115583, Russia; and Radio St., 7, P. 1, Office 411, Moscow, 105005, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
SMT-iLogic, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —SMT-iLogic, LLC; and —SMT Aylogik. Mineralnaya, Dom 13, Litera A, Pomeshtenie 15N, Saint Petersburg, 195197, Russia; and Mineralnaya St. 13 Litera A, Ind 15H, St. Petersburg, 19005, Russia; and Nepokorennykh Avenue, 17, Building 4, B, Room 5-N, St. Petersburg, 195220, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
SMT-K, a.k.a., the following six aliases:—KRYM SMT OOO LLC;—LLC CMT Crimea;—OOO 'CMT-K';—OOO 'SMT-K';—SMT-Crimea; and—Sovmortrans-Crimea. Anapskoye Highway 1, Temryuk, Russia. (See alternate address under Crimea region of Ukraine). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
SNGB AO, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Closed Joint Stock Company Surgutneftegasbank (ZAO SNGB); —Joint Stock Company Surgutneftegasbank; and —JSC BANK SNGB. 19 Kukuyvitskogo Street, Surgut 628400, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 6952, 2/16/18. 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
SO Tvernefteprodukt OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Limited Liability Company Marketing Association Tvernefteproduct; and —LLC MA Tvernefteproduct. 6 Novotorzhskaya Ulitsa, Tver, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 6952, 2/16/18. 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Software Research Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —JSC Research Institute of Software Tools; and —JSC NII PS. 22 Politekhnicheskaya Street, Lit N, St. Petersburg, 194021, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Southeast Trading Oy, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Southeast Trading LTD. St. Petersburg, Russia. (See also addresses under Finland and Romania) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15.
Sovfracht Managing Company, LLC, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—LLC Sovfracht Management Company;—Management Company Sovfrakht Ltd.;—Sovfracht Management Company; and—Sovfracht Management Company, LLC. Dobroslobodskaya, 3 BC Basmanov, Moscow 105066, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
Sovfracht-Sovmortrans Group, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Sovfracht-Sovmortrans; and—Sovfrakht-Sovmortrans. Rakhmanovskiy Lane, 4, bld.1, Morskoy House, Moscow 127994, Russia; and Dobroslobodskaya, 3 BC Basmanov, Moscow 105066, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
Sovkhoz Chervishevski PAO, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —OJSC Sovkhoz Chervishevsky; —Open Joint Stock Company Sovkhoz Chervishevsky; and —Sovkhoz Chervishevsky, JSC. d. 81 Sovetskaya Ulitsa, S. Chervichevsky, Tyumensky Rayon, Tyumensky Oblast 625519, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 6952, 2/16/18. 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Sovtest ATE, a.k.a. the following two aliases: —OOO Sovtest ATE; and —Sovtest ATE LLC. 49/49A Volodarskogo Street, Kursk, Kursk Oblast, 305000, Russia; and 135 Karl Marks Street, Kursk, Kursk Oblast, 305000, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Sovtest MTM OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Sovtest MTM; and —Sovtest MTM LLC. 49/49A Volodarskogo Street, Kursk, Kursk Oblast, 305000, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Sovtest-Servis OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Sovtest-Servis; and —Sovtest-Service LLC. 49/49A Volodarskogo Street, Kursk, Kursk Oblast, 305000, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Sovtest-Tekhno OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Sovtest-Tekhno; and —Sovtest-Techno LLC. 49/49A Volodarskogo Street, Kursk, Kursk Oblast, 305000, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
SP Kvant, a.k.a., the follow three aliases:—Kvant LLC;—Limited Liability Company Joint Venture Quantum Technologies; and—Joint Venture Quantum. D. 46, Etazh 6, pom. 600K, Shosse Varshavskoe, Moscow, 115230, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 13061, 3/8/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Specelkom, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Special Electronic Components, Ulitsa Mitinskaya 30/4, Moscow, Russia 123430. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Special Design and Technical Bureau for Relay Technology, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Relay Technology Bureau JSC; and—JSCT SKTB RT.55 Nijinsky St., Velikiy Novgorod, 173021, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Special Design Bureau Salute JSC, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—OKB Salute JSC; and—OKB Salyut JSC. 153 Krasniy Pr., Novosibirsk, Russia, 630049. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22.
Special Research Bureau for Automation of Marine Researches Far East Branch Russian Academy of Sciences, a.k.a., the following one alias:—SKB SAMI DVO RAN. 25 Alekseya Maksimovicha Gorkogo, Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, Kakhalinskaya Oblast, 693010, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Special Technological Center LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—OOO STTs. 21B Gzhatskaya St., St. Petersburg, 195220, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Special Technology Center, a.k.a., the following one alias:—STC, Ltd Gzhatskaya 21 k2, St. Petersburg, Russia; and 21-2 Gzhatskaya Street, St. Petersburg, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 724, 1/4/17.
SpekElectronGroup, 72 Lenigradsky Avenue, Bldg 4, Moscow, Russia 125315. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Spel LLC, 12 Gavanskaya Street, Building 2, Litera B, Room 1-N, Saint Petersburg, 199106, Russia; and 39 Morskaya Embankment, Building 2A, Room 9-N, St. Petersburg, 199155, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 76129, 11/6/23.
Spetstehnotreyd LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias: —OOO Spetstekhnotreid. 11 Mekhanizatorski Per., Office 105, Izhevsk, Udmurt Republic, 426028, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 76129, 11/6/23.
St. Petersburg Marine Bureau of Machine Building Malakhit, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—SPMBM Malakhit; and—Malakhit. 18 Frunze St., St. Petersburg, 196135, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
St. Petersburg Naval Design Bureau Almaz, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—JSC TsMKB Almaz; and—Almaz Central Marine Design Bureau. 50 Varshavskaya, St. Petersburg, 196128, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
St. Petersburg Shipbuilding Institution Krylov 45, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Krylov State Research Center. 44 Moskovskoe Highway, St. Petersburg, Russia, 196158. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Stanislav Berezovets, Ulitsa Polyany 9/6, Moscow, Russia 117042. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Stanislav Bolt, 9 Lipovaya alleya, St. Petersburg, Russia 197183. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Stanislav Orelsky, 6 Aptekarskiy Prospekt, Office 710, St. Petersburg, Russia 197376; and Naberezhnaya Chernoi Rechki 61-1, St. Petersburg, Russia 197342; and 7 Belovodskiy Ln, St. Petersburg, Russia 194044; and Belovodskyi Per, 7, St. Petersburg, Russia 194044; and Naberegnaja Chernoj Rechki 61-1, 197342, Saint Petersburg, Russia; and 16 Parkovaya 30, Office 319, Moscow, Russia 105484. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
State Flight Testing Center Named After V.P. Chkalov, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —929 GLITS; —929 State Flight Test Center; —929 GLITS VVS; —929 Gosudarstvenniy Letno-Ispytatelniy Tsentr Ministerstvo Oboroni Rossiiskoi Federatsii IM. V.P. Chkalova; and —GLITS MO RF IM. V.P. Ckhalova. Akhtubinsk, Astrakhan Oblast, 416500, Russia; and Chkalovsky Airfield, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
State Governmental Scientific Testing Area of Aircraft Systems (GkNIPAS), a.k.a., the following one alias:—Federal State Enterprise State Research and Testing Ground for Aviation Systems named after L.K. Safronov. 59 Lesnaya Street, 1st Microdistrict, Beloozersky, Voskresensk, Moscow Oblast, Russia, 140250. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
State Machine Building Design Bureau Raduga, Bereznyak, 2A Zhuckovskiy Street, Dubna, Moscow Oblast, Russia, 14980. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
State Scientific Center AO GNTs RF—FEI A.I. Leypunskiy Physico-Energy Institute, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Leypunsky Institute of Physics and Power Engineering; and—IPPE. 1 Bondarenko Square, Obninsk, Kaluga Oblast, Russia, 249020. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
State Scientific Research Institute of Machine Building Bakhirev (GosNIImash), a.k.a., the following three aliases:—JSC Scientific Research Institute for Mechanical Engineering;—State Research Institute of Mechanical Engineering named after. V.V. Bakhireva; and—GosNIImash. 11A Sverdlova Thoroughfare, Dzerzhinsk, Russia, 606002. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
State Scientific Research Institute of Organic Chemistry and Technology, a.k.a., the following one alias:—GosNIIOKhT. Shosse Entuziastov 23, Moscow, Moscow Oblast, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
STC Orion LLC, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —OOO NTTS Orion; —OOO Nauchno-Tekhnicheski Tsentr Orion; and —Limited Liability Company Scientific and Technical Center Orion. 7A Gostinichnaya, Pomeshch. 1/1, Office 1/V-08, Munitipalny Okrug Marfino, Moscow, 127106, Russia; and 3 Perunovskiy Per., Annex 2, Moscow, 127055, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 76129, 11/6/23.
Strakhovove Obshchestvo Surgutneftegaz OOO, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Insurance Company Surgutneftegas, LLC; —Limited Liability Company Insurance Company Surgutneftegas; and —LLC Insurance Company Surgutneftegas. 9/1 Lermontova Ulitsa, Surgut 628418, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 6952, 2/16/18. 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Strategic Control Posts Corporation, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Central Design Bureau of Heavy Machine Building SPU TsKB TM; and—JSC Corporation SPU-CCB TM. 12A Vozvodnaya St., Moscow, 111024, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Streloy, Dmitrovsky Per. 13, Office 7, St. Petersburg, 191025, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
Stroygazmontazh, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Limited Liability Company Stroygazmontazh, and—SGM, and—Stroygazmontazh Corporation 53 prospekt Vernadskogo, Moscow, 119415, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 24561, 5/1/14.
Stroytransgaz Group, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—STG Group, and—Stroytransgaz 3 Begovaya Street, Building # 1, Moscow, 125284, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 24561, 5/1/14.
Stroytransgaz LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—OOO Stroytransgaz House 65, Novocheremushkinskaya St., Moscow 117418, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 24461, 5/1/14.
Stroytransgaz OJSC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—OAO Stroytransgaz. House 58, Novocheremushkinskaya St., Moscow 117418, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 24561, 5/1/14.
Stroytransgaz-M LLC, Novy Urengoy City, 26th Meeting of the Communist Party Street, House 2V, Tyumenskaya Oblast, Yamalo-Nenetsky Autonomous Region 629305, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 24561, 5/1/14.
Sukhoi Aviation JSC, Polikarpov str., 23B, Moscow, 125284 Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Sukhoi Civil Aircraft, 1 Sovetskaya Street, Komsomolsk-On-Amur 681018, Russia; and 15 Tupoleva Street, OP JSC SCA, Zukhovskiy 140180, Russia; and 23b Bld 2 Polikarpova St, Moscow 125824, Russia; and 26, Bld. 5, Leninskaya Sloboda Street, Moscow, 115280, Russia; and Antonova Avenue 1, Ulianovsk 432072, Russia; and Leningradskaya Street 80/4A, Komsomolsk-On-Amur 681007, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12241, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Superkam LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias: —OOO Superkam. 24 10 Let Oktyabrya Street, Apartment 62, Izhevsk, Republic of Udmurtskaya, 426011, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Surgutmebel OOO, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Limited Liability Company Syrgutmebel; —LLC Surgutmebel; —LLC Syrgutmebel; and —Surgutmebel, LLC. Vostochnaya Industrial 1 Territory 2, Poselok Barsovo, Surgutsky District, Yugra, Khanty-Mansiysky Autonomos Okrug, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 6952, 2/16/18. 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Surgutneftegas (a.k.a. Open Joint Stock Company Surgutneftegas; a.k.a. Otkrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Surgutneftegaz; a.k.a. Surgutneftegas OAO; a.k.a. Surgutneftegas OJSC; a.k.a. Surgutneftegaz OAO) Address: ul. Grigoriya Kukuyevitskogo, 1, bld. 1, Khanty-Mansiysky Autonomous Okrug—Yugra, the city of Surgut, Tyumenskaya Oblast 628415, Russia. Alt Address: korp. 1 1 Grigoriya Kukuevitskogo ul., Surgut, Tyumenskaya oblast 628404, Russia. Alt Address: Street Kukuevitskogo 1, Surgut, Tyumen Region 628415, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 79 FR 55612, 9/17/14. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Svyaz Design Bureau, OJSC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—KB Svyaz Prospect Sokolova 96, Rostov-on-Don 344010, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 94968, 12/27/16.
Symphony LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias: —OOO Simfoniya. 15 Yakovoapostolsky Lane, Moscow, 105064, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Syrus Systems, 3-Y Novyy Pereulok, 5, Moscow, 107140, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 48534, 9/26/18.
Systema VP, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Sistema VP 4 Savelkinskiy Dr., Suite 511-512, Zelenograd, Russia 124482; and Savelkinsky Pr 4, Office 512, Zelenograd, Russia 124482; and Savelkinskiy Proyedz 4, Office 512, Zelenograd, Russia 124482; and 4 Yunost Square, NPZ, Suite 1-7, Zelenograd, Russia 124482; and Ofis 511, Prospeckt Savelinksi, Moscow, Russia 124482; and 4 Yunost Plaza NPZ, rooms 1-7, Zelenograd, Moscow 124482. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Systems of Biological Synthesis LLC., a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Sistemy Biologicheskogo Sinteza; —OOO SBS; and —SBS LLC. Akademika Koroleva Street, Building 13/1, Office 35-39, Moscow, 129515, Russia and Akademika Koroleva Street, Building 13/1, Floor 2, Offices 60-61, Moscow, 129515, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22. 89 FR 55035, 7/3/24.
T-Komponent SP, a.k.a., the following one alias: —T-Component SP. 7 Konstitutsii Square, Office 614, Litera A, Novoizmailovskoe Municipal District, Saint Petersburg, 196191, Russia; and 153 Prospekt Leninskii, Room 60N, Office 215, Floor 2, Saint Petersburg, 196247, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Tactical Missile Corporation, 711 Aircraft Repair Plant (711 ARZ), 18 Chkalova Pereulok, Borisoglebsk, Voronezhskaya Oblast, 397171, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, AO GNPP “Region”, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—GNPP Region, PAO;—Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo “Gosudarstvennoe Nauchno-Proizvodstvennoe Predpriyatie “Region,”; and—“Region” Scientific & Production Enterprise JSC. 10 Turaevo I.Z., Lytkarino City, Moscow Region, 140080, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, AO TMKB “Soyuz”, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Turaevskoe MKB “Soyuz”;—Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Turaevskoe Mashinostroitelnoe Konstruktorskoe Byuro “Soyuz”;—Soyuz PAO; and—JSC “Turaevskoe Machine-Building Design Bureau “Soyuz. 10 Turaevo I.Z., Lytkarino City, Moscow Region, 140080, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, Azov Optical and Mechanical Plant, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—PPO Azovski Optiko-Mekhanicheski Zavod;—Pervichnaya Profsoyuznaya Organizatsiya “Azovski Optiko-Mekhanicheski Zavod” Rossiskogo Profsoyuza Rabotnikov Promyshlennosti;and—JSC AOMZ). 5 Promyshlennaya Street, Azov, Rostovskaya Oblast, 346780, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, “Central Design Bureau of Automation”, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—JSC “TsKBA”;— AO “TsKBA”; and— Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo “Tsentralnoe Konstruktorskoe Byuro Avtomatiki”. 24A Kosmicheski Prospekt, Omsk, Omskaya Oblast,44027, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, Concern “MPO—Gidropribor”, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Joint Stock Company Concern Sea Underwater Weapons Gidropribor; and—Research Institute “Gidpropridor”; Central Research Institute “Gidropribor”. 24, Sampsonievskiy pr., St. Petersburg, 194044, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, Joint Stock Company Avangard, 78 Oktyabrskaya Street, Safonovo, Smolensk region, 215500, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, Joint Stock Company Concern Granit-Electron, 3 Gospitalnaya St, St. Petersburg, 191014, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, Joint Stock Company Elektrotyaga, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Electric Traction; and—ZAO Elekrotjaga. 50-A Kalinina Str, St Petersburg, 198095, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, Joint Stock Company GosNIIMash, a.k.a., the following five aliases:—PPO Rosprofprom V “GOSNIIMASH”;—State Research Institute of Mechanical Engineering;—Pervichnaya Profsoyuznaya Organizatsiya Rossiskogo Profsoyuza Rabotnikov Promyshlennosti V “GOSNIIMASH”;—Joint Stock Company “State Research Institute of Mechanical Engineering” named after V.V. Bakhirev”; and—SKB DNIKhTI. 11 Sverdlova Prospekt, Dzerzhinsk, Nizhegorodskaya Oblast, 606002, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, Joint Stock Company PA Strela, a.k.a. the following one alias:—Production Association Strela. 26 Shevchenko str., Orenburg, 460005, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, Joint Stock Company “Plant Dagdiesel”, 1 Lenina Street, Kaspiysk, Republic of Dagestan, 368300, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, Joint Stock Company Plant Kulakov, a.k.a., the following one alias:—JSC Plant Named After A.A. Kulakov. 12 Yablochkova Street, St. Petersburg, 197198, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, Joint Stock Company Ravenstvo, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Joint-Stock Company Ravenstvo; Equality. 19 Promyshlennaya Street, St. Petersburg, 198099, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, Joint Stock Company Ravenstvo-service, 19 Promyshlennaya Street, St. Petersburg, 198099, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, Joint-Stock Company “Research Center for Automated Design, a.k.a., following two aliases:—NIC ASK; and—ASK JSC. 37 Leningradsky Prospekt, Room 12, Moscow, 125167, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, Joint Stock Company “Salute”, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Salyut, PAO; and—Kuibyshev Mechanical Plant. 20 Moskovskoe Shosse, Samara, 443028, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, Joint Stock Company Saratov Radio Instrument Plant, 108 50 Years of October, Saratov, 410040, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation Joint Stock Company “Scientific Research Institute of Marine Heat Engineering”, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Research Institute of Morteplotehniki. 44 Chernikova Street, Lomonosov, St. Petersburg, 198412, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, Joint Stock Company Severny Press, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Northern Press. 7 Tallinskaya Street, St. Petersburg, 195196, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, Joint Stock Company “State Machine Building Design Bureau “Vympel” By Name I.I. Toropov”, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—AO Gos MKB “Vympel” named for II Toropov; and—Vympel NPO. 90 Voloklamskoe Shosse, Moscow, 125424, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, Joint Stock Company “URALELEMENT”, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Verkhneufalei Plant “Uralelement”. 24 Dmitrieva St., Verkhny Ufaley, Chelyabinsk region, 456800, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation JSC “KRASNY GIDROPRESS”, a.k.a., the following five aliases:—Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo “Krasny Gidropress,”;—Krasny Gidropress, PAO;—Red Hydraulic Press;—Krasny Gidropress JSC; and—Taganrog Krasnyy Gidropress Plan. 3 Severnaya Place, Taganrog, Rostovskaya Oblast, 347928, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, KB Mashinostroeniya, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—JSC Research and Production Corporation Design Bureau of Mechanical Engineering; and—JSC NPK KBM. 42 Oksky Prospect, Kolomna, Moscow Region, 140402, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, NPO Electromechanics, 31 Mendeleev Street, Chelyabinsk region, 456320, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, NPO Lightning, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Research and Production Association Lightning JSC NPO Molniya. 5K1 Lodochnaya Street, Moscow, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, Petrovsky Electromechanical Plant “Molot”, 40 Gogol Street, Petrovsk, Saratov Region, 412541, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, PJSC ANPP Temp Avia, a.k.a., the following six aliases—ANPP “TEMP AVIA”;—Public Joint Stock Company “Arzamas Research and Production Enterprise”;—TEMP-AVIA;—ANPP TEMP AIR;—Joint Stock Company “Arzamas Research And Production Enterprise “TEMP-AVIA”; and—Publichnoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo “Arzamasskoe Nauchno-Proizvodstvennoe Predpriyatie “TEMP-AVIA”. 26 G. Arzamas G.Arzamas. Street, Kirov, Nizhniy Novgorod, 607220 Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, PJSC “MBDB ISKRA”, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo “Mashinostroitelnoe Konstruktorskoe Byuro “Iskra” Imeni Ivana Ivanovicha Kartukova”; and—AO MKB “ISKRA”. 35 Leningradsky Prospekt, Moscow, 125284, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, Raduga Design Bureau, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—AO “GosMKB “Raduga” IM. A.Ya.Bereznyaka,”;—Joint Stock Company “State Machine-Building Design Bureau “Raduga,”;—MKB Raduga; and—GosMKB “Rainbow” them. AND I. Bereznyak. 2A Zhukovskogo, Dubna, Moscowvskaya Oblast, 141983, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, RKB Globus, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—JSC Ryazan Design Bureau Globus; and—Federal State Unitary Enterprise RKB Globus. 6 Vysokovoltnaya Street, Ryazan, 390013, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, Smolensk Aviation Plant, a.k.a., the following one alias:—JSC “SmAZ”. 74 Frunze Street, Smolensk, 214006, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, TRV Engineering, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Zvezda-Strela Trading House LLC. 2A Ordzhonikidze Street, Korolev, Moscow Region, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, Ural Design Bureau “Detal”, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Joint-Stock Company “Ural Design Bureau “Detal”;—Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo “Uralskoe Proektno-Konstruktorskoe Byuro “Detal”;—AO UPKB “Detal”; and—Uralskoe Proektno-Konstruktorskoe Byuro Detal, Pao. 8 Pionerskaya Street, Kamensk-Uralski, Sverdlovskaya Oblast, 623409, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missile Corporation, Zvezda-Strela Limited Liability Company, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Star Arrow; and—Zvezda-Arrow Corporation. 3 Taganrog Severnaya Square, Rostov Region, 347928, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tactical Missiles Corporation JSC, KorolevIlyicha Street, 7, 141080, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Tambov Plant (TZ) “October”, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Tambov Plant (TZ) October JSC; and—JSC Octayabr. 1 Bastionaya Street, Tambov, Tambovskaya Oblast, 392029, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22.
Tavrida Microelectronics, Zelenaya Street 1 Dolgoprudnyy Moscow 141700, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial. See § 746.8(b) | 87 FR 76926, 12/16/22.
TD Promelektronika LLC, a.k.a. the following one alias: —Trading House Promelektronika. 70 Kolmogorova Street, Office 209, Ekaterinburg, Sverdlovskaya Oblast, 620034, Russia; and 31 Novocherkasski Bulvar, Moscow, 109369, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Technical Center Windeq LLC, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —OOO Tekhnicheski Tsentr Vindek; and —TC Windeq. 1B/3 Pokrovskaya Street, Office 69, G.O. Podolsk, Moscow Oblast, 142116, Russia; and 1 Domodedovskoye Avenue, Building 3, Podolskiy District, Moscow Oblast, 142116, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 76129, 11/6/23.
Technology Videoanalysis LLC, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Tevian; and —Technologii Videoanaliza. Skulptora Muchinoi Ulitsa, Dom 7, Floor 1 pomeshchenie II komnata 2v, Moscow, 119634, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 99703, 12/11/24.
Technomar, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Tehnomar. 14-60 Vorotynskaya, Moscow, Russia; and 29 Entuziastov Highway Floor 11, Moscow, Russia; and 12 Aviamotornaya Street, Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
Technopark Skolkovo Limited Liability Company, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —LLC Science and Technology Park Skolkovo; and —OOO Tekhnopark Skolkovo. 42 Bolshoi Boulevard, Building 1, Floor 2, Premises 822, Skolkovo Innovation Center, Moscow, 121205, Russia; and 42 Bolshoy Bulvar 42, Building 1, Office 502, Moscow, 121205, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Technopole Company, 5-183 Entuziastov Street, Dubna, Moscow Region, Russia 141980; and 12 Aviamotornaya Street, Moscow, Russia 111024. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16.
Tikhomirov Scientific Research Institute of Instrument Design, JSC (a.k.a., JSC NIIP, f.k.a., Otkrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Nauchno Issledovatelski Institute Priborostroeniya Imeni V.V. Tikhomirova; a.k.a. Scientific Research Institute of Instrument Design; a.k.a. JSC V. Tikhomirov Scientific Research Institute of Instrument Design.) Address: 3 Ul. Gagarina, Zhukovski, Moskovskaya Obl 140180, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 55612, 9/17/14.
Timofey Telegin, 18, bld. 2, Frontovyh Brigad Street, Yekaterinburg 620017, Russia; and 15 A Kulakova Prospect, Office 307, Stavropol 355044, Russia; and 12/11 Bld 12, 1-st Bukhvostova Street, Moscow 107076, Russia. (See alternate address under Kazakhstan) | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 3580, 1/26/18.
Timur Nikoleavich Edigeev, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Timur Yedigeyev, 53 Sherbakovskaya Street, Building 3, Office 509, 105318 Moscow, Russia; and 26 General Belov Str, Office 1010, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 1010, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 General Belov St Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 415, Moscow, Russia 115583. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Tomsk Microwave and Photonic Integrated Circuits and Modules Collective Design Center, a.k.a., the following one alias:—TUSUR-Electronica Research Company. 147 Krasnoarmeyskay Street, Office 101, Tomsk, Russia 634045; and 19 Gvardeyskoy Divizii Street, Office 64, 15, Tomsk, Russia, 634045. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Trans-Flot JSC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—JSC Trans-Flot ul Ventseka 1/97, Samara 443099, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 94968, 12/27/16.
Transoil, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Limited Liability Company Transoil, and—Transoil LLC, and—Transoyl SNG Ltd., and—Obshchestvo S Organichernnoi Otvetstvennostyu Transoil 18A Petrogradskaya nab., St. Petersburg, Russia, 197046. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 24561, 5/1/14.
Transpetrochart Co. Ltd., Prospekt Engelsa 30, St. Petersburg 194156, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 94968, 12/27/16.
Transservice LLC, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Limited Liability Company Transservis;—Obschestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu Transservis; and—OOO Transservis. 35 Prospekt Gubkina, Omsk, Omskaya Oblast 664035, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 80646, 12/28/15.
Trust Logistics, a.k.a. the following one alias: —OOO Logistika Doveriya. Office 321, 3n1 Floor, Property 5, Territory of Sheremetyevo Airport, Khimki , Moscow Oblast, 141402, Russia; and 27 Engelsa street, floor 2, Khimki, Moscow Oblast, 141402, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Trust Logistics Group LLC, a.k.a. the following one alias: —OOO Trast Lodzhistiks Grupp. Room 40, Suite I, Building 92, Yurovskaya Street, Moscow, 125466, Russia; and 32kl Baryshikha Street, Moscow, 125368, Russia; and Office 321, 3rd Floor, Property 5, Territory of Sheremetyevo Airport, Khimki, Moscow Oblast, 141402, Russia; and 23 Yelizarova Street, Samara, 443051, Russia; and 92 Yurovskaya Street, Moscow, 125466, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
TsKB MT Rubin, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Tsentralnoe Konstruktorskoe Byuro Morskoi Tekhniki Rubin; and—The Rubin Central Design Bureau for Marine Engineering. 90 Marata Street, Saint Petersburg, 191119, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Tula Arms Plant, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Tula; —Tula Arsenal; —Imperial Tula Arms Plant; and —JSC Tulsky Oruzheiny Zavod. 1 Sovetskaya Street, Tula, 300041, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 60066, 10/4/22.
Tupolev JSC, Academician Tupolev Embankment 17, Moscow, 105005, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Turayev Machine Building Design Bureau Soyuz, a.k.a., the following one alias:—TMBDB SoyuZ PJSC. 10 Turaevo I.Z., Lytkarino, Moscow Region, 140080, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22.
UAB Pella-Fjord, 4 Tsentralnaya Street, Kirovski District, Otradnoe, Leningradskaya Oblast, Russia, 187330. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
UEC-Saturn, 163 Lenin Avenue, Rybinsk 152903, Yavoslavl Region, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
Ugolnye Tekhnologii, OOO, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Coal Technologies; and—Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu “Ugolnye Tekhnologii”. d. 25 ofis 13, 14, per. Avtomobilny, Rostov-on-Don, Rostovskaya Oblast 344038, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR). | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 6952, 2/16/18.
UK PT Sovtest OOO, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —OOO Upravlyayushchaya Kompaniya Promyshlenny Tekhnopark Sovtest; —Management Company Industrial Tekhnopark Sovtest; —UK PT Sovtest; and —UK PT Sovtest LLC. 49/49A Volodarskogo Street, Kursk, Kursk Oblast, 305000, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
United Aircraft Corporation, Bolshaya Pionerskaya str., 1, Moscow, 115054, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
United Engine Corporation, 16, Budyonny Avenue, Moscow, 105118 Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis | 87 FR 12241, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
United Instrument Manufacturing Corporation, Vereiskaya 29, str. 141, Moscow, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis | 87 FR 12240, 3/3/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
United Machine Building Group Limited Liability Company, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —OOO Obedinennaya Mashinostroitelnaya Gruppa; —OOO OMG; —UMG; —UMG LLC; —United Machinery Group LLC; and —United Machine Building Group LLC. 15 Rochdelskaya Street, Building 8, Floor 2, Premises II, Room 45 Moscow, 123022, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
United Shipbuilding Corporation, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Obedinennaya Sudostroitelnaya Korporatsiya OAO; and—OJSC United Shipbuilding Corporation; and—United Shipbuilding Corporation Joint Stock Company; and—OSK OAO. 90, Marata ul., St. Petersburg 191119, Russia; and 11, Sadovaya-Kudrinskaya str., Moscow 123242, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 45679, 8/6/14.
United Shipbuilding Corporation JSC “35th Shipyard”, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Filial “35 sudoremontny zavod” Aktsionernogo obshchestva “Tsentr sudoremonta” “Zvezdochka”. 100 Admirala Flota Lobova, Murmansk, Russia, 183017; and 100 A Street, Lobova, Russia, 183017. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
United Shipbuilding Corporation JSC “Astrakhan Shipyard”, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Strahansky Shipyard. 37 Atarbekova, Astrakhan 414009, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
United Shipbuilding Corporation JSC “Aysberg Central Design Building”, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Iceberg Central Design Bureau. 36 Bolshoi Avenue V. I., St. Petersburg, Russia, 199034. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
United Shipbuilding Corporation JSC “Baltic Shipbuilding Factory”, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—JSC Baltiski Zavod; and—Baltic Shipyard. 16 Kosaya Liniya Street, St. Petersburg, Russia, 199106. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
United Shipbuilding Corporation JSC “Krasnoye Sormovo Plant OJSC”, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Zavod Krasnoe Sormovo, PAO. 1 Barrikad Street, Nizhni Novgorod, Nizhegorodskaya Oblast, Russia, 603003. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
United Shipbuilding Corporation JSC “SC “Zvyozdochka”, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Filial “Astrakhanski Sudoremontny Zavod” Aktsionernogo Obshchestva “Tsentr sudoremonta “Zvezdochka”. 37 Atarbekova, Astrakhan, Astrakhanskaya Oblast, Russia, 414009. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
United Shipbuilding Corporation “Pribaltic Shipbuilding Factory Yantar”, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo “Pribaltiski Sudostroitelny Zavod “Yantar”; and—Pribaltiski Sudostroitelny Zavod Yantar, Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo. 1 Guskova Place, Kaliningrad, Kaliningradskaya Oblast, Russia, 236005. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
United Shipbuilding Corporation “Production Association Northern Machine Building Enterprise”, a.k.a., the following one alias:—JSC PO Sevmash. 58 Archangelskoye Shosse, Severodvinsk, Archangelsk Region, 164500, Russia. | All items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22. 87 FR 34136, 6/6/22.
United Shipbuilding Corporation “Scientific Research Design Technological Bureau Onega”, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Nauchno-issledovatelskoe proektno-teknnologicheskoe byuro Onega PJSC; and—SC NIPTB Onega. 12 Mashinostroitelei Thoroughfare, Severodvinsk, Arkhangelskaya Oblast, Russia,164509. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
United Shipbuilding Corporation “Sredne-Nevsky Shipyard”, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—JSC SNSZ;—Aktcionernoe Obshestvo “Sredne-Nevsky Sudostroyelny Plant”;—Middle Neva Shipbuilding Plant; and—Federal State Unitary Enterprise “Sredne-Nevsky Shipbuilding Plant”. 10 Zavodskaya Street, Pontonny District, Saint Petersburg, Russia, 196643. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Ural Scientific Research Institute for Composite Materials, 57 Novozvyaginskaya Street, Perm, Russia, 614014. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Urals Project Design Bureau Detal, 8 Pironskaya Street, Kamensk-Uralskiy, Sverdlovsk Oblast, Russia, 623409. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Uralvagonzavod, a.k.a., the following eight aliases:—Nauchno-Proizvodstvennaya Korporatsiya Uralvagonzavod OAO; and—NPK Uralvagonzavod; and—NPK Uralvagonzavod OAO; and—OJSC Research and Production Corporation Uralvagonzavod; and—Research and Production Corporation Uralvagonzavod; and—Research and Production Corporation Uralvagonzavod OAO; and—Uralvagonzavod Corporation; and—UVZ. 28, Vostochnoye shosse, Nizhni Tagil, Sverdlovsk region 622007, Russia; and 28 Vostochnoe shosse, Nizhni Tagil, Sverdlovskaya oblast 622007, Russia; and 40, Bolshaya Yakimanka Street, Moscow 119049, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 42455, 7/22/14.
V.A. Trapeznikov Institute of Control Sciences of Russian Academy of Sciences, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—ICS RAS; and—IPU RAS. 65 Profsoyuznaya Street, Business Center Vozdvizhenka Center Voentorg, Moscow, 117997, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
VAD, AO, a.k.a, the following seven aliases:—Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo VAD;—AO, VAD;—CJSC VAD;—Joint Stock Company VAD;—JSC VAD;—ZAO VAD; and—High-Quality Highways. 133, ul. Chernyshevskogo, Vologda, Vologodskaya Obl 160019, Russia; and 122 Grazhdanskiy Prospect, Suite 5, Liter A, St. Petersburg 195267, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 6952, 2/16/18.
Vadim Shuletskiy, 6 Aptekarskiy Prospekt, Office 710, St. Petersburg, Russia 197376; and 7 Belovodskiy Ln, St. Petersburg, Russia 194044; and Belovodskyi Per, 7, St. Petersburg, Russia 194044, and Naberegnaja Chernoj Rechki 61-1, 197342, Saint Petersburg, Russia; and 16 Parkovaya 30, Office 319, Moscow, Russia 105484. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Valentina Mazalova, 6 Aptekarskiy Prospekt, Office 710, St. Petersburg, Russia 197376; and Naberezhnaya Chernoi Rechki 61-1, St. Petersburg, Russia 197342; and 7 Belovodskiy Ln, St. Petersburg, Russia 194044; and Belovodskyi Per, 7, St. Petersburg, Russia 194044; and Naberegnaja Chernoj Rechki 61-1, 197342, Saint Petersburg, Russia; and 16 Parkovaya 30, Office 319, Moscow, Russia 105484. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Vega Pilot Plant, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—OZ Vega—Filial AO TSS Zvezdochka; and—Experimental Plant Vega. 73 Lenina Street, Borovski District, Borovsk, Kaluga Oblast, Russia, 249010. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Vertikal LLC, 148 Moskovski Avenue, Letter D, Apartment 8, Saint Petersburg, Russia, 196084. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Video Logic, 4 Yunost Square, NPZ, Suite 1-7, Zelenograd, Russia 124482. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Viktor Bokovoi, Ulitsa Polyany 9/6, Moscow, Russia 117042. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
VIP Technology Ltd., Bechtereva Street 3/2, Office 40 Saint Petersburg 192019, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial. See § 746.8(b) | 87 FR 76926, 12/16/22.
VisionLabs Limited Liability Company, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —OOO Vizhnlabs; and —VisionLabs. 8 Tvardovskogo Street, Building 1, Floor 2, Premises I, Office 1, Moscow, 123458, Russia; and 23 Podsosenskiy Lane, Building 3, Moscow, 105062, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 12158, 2/27/23.
Vitaliy Nagorniy, Ulitsa Polyany 9/6, Moscow, Russia 117042. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Vladimir Davidenko, 20 Novaya Basmannaya St., Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Vladimir Design Bureau for Radio Communications OJSC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—VKBR. 28 Baturina St., Vladimir, Vladimirskaya oblast, 600017, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Vladimir Safraonov, 25 Red Cadets Street Letter H, Office Block 2, St. Petersburg, Russia 99034; and 130-17 Nevskiy Ave., Saint Petersburg, Russia 191036; and 16 Linia V.O., 7 Office 43, St. Petersburg, Russia 99034; and Krestovski River Quay 3, Suite 42, St. Petersburg, Russia 197376. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Vladimir Viktorovich Lavrov, Vavilovykh Street 4-2 #267, St. Petersburg, Russia 195257; and Zastavskaya St. 32A, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Zastavskaya St. 15-B, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Raketnyy Bul'var 15, Moscow, Russia 129164; and 16 Raketnyy Bul'var, Moscow, Russia 129164. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Vladislav A. Sokolov, 6 Aptekarskiy Prospekt, Office 710, St. Petersburg, Russia 197376; and Naberezhnaya Chernoi Rechki 61-1, St. Petersburg, Russia 197342; and 7 Belovodskiy Ln, St. Petersburg, Russia 194044; and Belovodskyi Per, 7, St. Petersburg, Russia 194044; and Naberegnaja Chernoj Rechki 61-1, 197342, Saint Petersburg, Russia; and 16 Parkovaya 30, Office 319, Moscow, Russia 105484. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Vladislav Vladimirovich Fedorenko, Ul. Artillyeriskaya, d.1, lit.A, POM26N, St. Petersburg, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Voentelecom JSC, 15A/1 Bolshaya Olenya St., Moscow, 107014, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 34157, 6/6/22.
Volga Group, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Volga Group Investments, and—Volga Resources, and—Volga Resources Group. Russia. (see alternate address under Luxembourg). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 24561, 5/1/14.
Volgograd Machine Building Company Limited Liability Company, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —OOO VMK VGTZ; —VGTZ; —Volgogradskaya Mashinostroitelnaya Kompaniya; and —LLC Volgograd Machine Building Company VGTZ. 1 Dzerzhinskogo Square, Volgograd, Volgograd Oblast, 400006, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Voronezh Scientific Research Institute “Vega“, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Voronezhskiy Nauchno-Issledovatelskiy Institut “Vega“; and—VNII Vega. Moskovskiy Prospekt 7B, Voronezh, 394026, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 48534, 9/26/18.
Vostokgazprom, OAO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Otkrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo 'Vostokgazprom'; and —Vostokgazprom. d.73 ul.Bolshaya Podgornaya, Tomsk, Tomskaya obl. 634009, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24
VR-Technologies Limited Liability Company, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —OOO VR-Teknologii; —Vertoletnye Systemy, OOO; —VR Tech; —VR-Technologies; —VR Technologies LLC; and —VR-Technologies of Russian Helicopters. 12 Krasnopresnenskaya Embankment, Center of International Trade, Premises 1/13, Moscow, 123610, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
VSMPO-AVISMA Corporation PJSC, a.k.a., the following seven aliases: —Avisma; —Korporatsiya VSMPO-Avisma; —Oao Korporatsiya VSMPO-Avisma; —Verkhnyaya Salda Metallurgical Production Association for Aviation Special Materials; —VSMPO; —VSMPO-AVISMA; and —VSMPO Avisma OAO. 1, Parkovaya St., Verkhnaya Salda, Sverdlovsk Region, 624760, Russia; and Pao D. 2 Korp. 4 Str. 13 Of. 6, Per. Sawinski B., Moscow, 119435, Russia; and 29 Zagorodnaya Str., Berezniki, Perm Krai, 618421, Russia; and 2-4-6, Bld. 13 Bolshoi Savvinskiy Pereulok, Moscow, 119435, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
VTK Ltd, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Your Fuel Company;—BTK; and—OOO VTK. 14 Professora Kachalova Street, Letter A, Saint Petersburg, Russia, 192019. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
VXI-Systems Limited Liability Company, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —InformTest Holdings; —VXI-Systems; —VXI-Systems LLC; —VXI-Systemy; and —VXI-Systemy OOO. 4 Savelkinsky Way, Zelenograd, Moscow, 124482, Russia; and 4 Savelkinsky Way, 6th Floor, Premises XIV, Room 8, Zelenograd, Moscow, 124482, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 32642, 5/22/23.
Vyacheslav Y Shillin, Zastavskaya St. 32A, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Zastavskaya St. 15-B, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Raketnyy Bul'var 15, Moscow, Russia 129164; and 16 Raketnyy Bul'var, Moscow, Russia 129164. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
'Wolf' Holding of Security Structures, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Defense Holding Structure “Wolf”;—Holding Security Structure Wolf;—Kholding Okhrannykh Struktur Volk; and—Wolf Holding Company ul. Panferova d. 18, Moscow 119261, Russia; and Nizhniye Mnevniki, 110, Moscow, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 28408, 6/22/17.
Yamalgazinvest, ZAO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Yamalgazinvest; and —Zakrytoe Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo 'Yamalgazinvest'. d. 41 korp. 1 prospekt Vernadskogo, Moscow 117415, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 81 FR 61601, 9/7/16. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Yaroslavl Shipbuilding Factory, a.k.a., the following one alias:—PAO Yaroslavskiy sudostroitelnyy zavod. 1 Korabelnaya Street, Yaroslavl, Russia, 150006. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
YE-International AO, 70 Obukhovskoy Oborony Avenue, Building 3A, St. Petersburg, 192029, Russia; and 34 Entusiastov Street, Office B.4.1, Moscow, 105118, Russia; and 55 Kuybysheva Street, Office 503, Ekaterinburg, 620144, Russia; and 166 Gagarina Prospect, Office 203, Nizhny Novgorod, 603009, Russia; and 40 Kommunisticheskaya Street, Office 501, Novosibirsk, 630007, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Yekaterina Parfenova, 4 Savelkinskiy Dr., Suite 511-512, Zelenograd, Russia 124482. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Yevgeniy L Biryukov, Pr. Yuria Gagarina 2, Office 801, St. Petersburg, Russia 196105. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Yuliya L. Molkova-Poluh, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Yuliya Molkova-Polukh; and—Yuliya Leonidovna; Molkova-Polyukh; and—Yuliya Molkova-Polah, Zastavskaya St. 32A, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Zastavskaya St. 15-B, St. Petersburg, Russia 196084; and Raketnyy Bul'var 15, Moscow, Russia 129164; and 16 Raketnyy Bul'var, Moscow, Russia 129164. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Yuri A. Krasheninnikov, 9 Lipovaya alleya, St. Petersburg, Russia 197183. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Yuri Savin, 39 Dnepropetrovskaya Str., Build 1, Apt. 287, Moscow, Russia; and 36 Mitinskaya St, Building 1, Office 406, Moscow, Russia 125430; and 53 Shcherbakovskaya Street, Moscow 105187; and 72 Lenigradsky Avenue, Bldg 4, Moscow, Russia 125315. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Yuriy Vasilyevich Kuzminov, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Yuri Kuzminov, 53 Sherbakovskaya Street, Building 3, Office 509, 105318 Moscow, Russia; and 26 General Belov Str, Office 19, Moscow, Russia 115583; and 26 Generala Belova Street, Office 19, Moscow, Russia 115583. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Yuzhno-Kirinskoye Field, in the Sea of Okhotsk. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 47404, 8/7/15. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
ZALA Aero Group, a.k.a., the following fourteen aliases: —A-Level Aerosystems; —CST; —CST LLC; —CST Limited; —CST, OOO; —TsST Limited Liability Company; —TsST LLC; —TsST Limited; —TsST, OOO; —ZALA; —ZALA AERO; —ZALA AERO GROUP—Bespilotniye Sistemy; —ZALA AERO GROUP—Unmanned Systems; and —ZALA Aero Group Limited Liability Company. 118 40 Let Pobedy Street, Izhevsk, Udmurt Republic, 426072, Russia; and 3 Perunovsky Per., Building 2, Floor 3, Room 21, Moscow, 127055, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 76129, 11/6/23.
ZAO Elmiks-VS, Ul. Artillyeriskaya, d.1, lit.A, POM26N, St. Petersburg, Russia 191014. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
ZAO Sparta, Ul. Mokhovaya, d.18, li.A, Kv.7N, St. Petersburg, Russia 191028. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
ZAO Svyaz Inzhiniring, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Svyaz Engineering. 6th Radialnaya Street, Office 9, Moscow, Russia, 115404. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Zhukovskiy Central Aerohydrodynamics Institute (TsAGI), a.k.a., the following two aliases:—TsAGI; and—The Central Aerohydrodynamic Institute named after N.E. Zhukovsky. 1 Zhukovsky Street, Zhukovsky, Moscow Region, 140180, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of Denial | 87 FR 20299, 4/7/22.
Zorsecurity Center (f.k.a., Esage Lab), a.k.a., the following one alias:—TSOR Security Luzhnetskaya Embankment 2⁄4, Building 17, Office 444, Moscow 119270, Russia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 724, 1/4/17.
SAUDI ARABIA | UEC (Pvt.) Ltd., P.O. Box 245221, Riyadh 11312, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (See alternate addresses under Pakistan and U.A.E.) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 44824, 9/4/18.
SENEGAL | Dart Aviation, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —Dart Aviation Technics; —Dart Aviation Marlbrine S.A.R.L.; —MBP Trading Ltd.; —Almo Aero; —Almo Aero (Dart Aviation Technics) (IEAS); and —SARL IEAS. CID Aéroport International Léopold Sedar Senghor Dakar Yoff Senegal. (See alternate addresses under France, Iran and the United Kingdom). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19. 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20. 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
SINGAPORE | Action Global, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Action Global Co., Limited. 520 Sims Avenue, #02-04, Singapore 387580. (See alternate addresses under China). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 67062, 10/31/11.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Alexsong PTE LTD, a.k.a., the following one entity:—Champion Way Pte Ltd. OG Albert Complex, Albert Street 60 #10-04, City-Beach Road, 189969 Singapore. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Amaze International, Block 1057 Eunos Avenue 3, #02-85, Singapore 409848. (See alternate address under China). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 67062, 10/31/11.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Beijing Highlander Digital Technology Co., Ltd., 1 Sunview Rd., #08-43, Singapore 627615. (See alternate address under China). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Brian Douglas Woodford, 1 Scotts Road, Suite 25-06 Shaw Centre, Singapore 228208. (See alternate address under the United Kingdom) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 74001, 12/5/08.
Computer Security Initiative Consultancy PTE. LTD., a.k.a., the following alias:—COSEINC. 102F Pasir Panjang Rd., #08-02, Citilink Warehouse Complex, Singapore 118530. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 60760, 11/4/21.
Corad Technology Pte Ltd., 10 UBI Crescent, #04-43 UBI TechPark, Singapore, 408564; and 11 Kallang Pl, 03-04, Whampoa, Singapore. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Corezing International, a.k.a., the following five aliases:—CoreZing Electronics;—Corezing International Group Company;—Corezing International Pte Ltd;—Corezing Technology Pte Ltd; and—Core Zing. 2021 Bukit Batok Street 23, #02-212, Singapore 659626; and 111 North Bridge Road, #27-01 Peninsula Plaza, Singapore 179098; and 50 East Coast Road, #2-70 Roxy Square, Singapore 428769; and Block 1057 Eunos Avenue 3, #2-85, Singapore 409848 (See alternate address under China). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 67062, 10/31/11.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Cyberinn PTE LTD, a.k.a., the following alias:—Index Consultancy & Services PTE LTD., 1 Rochor Canal Road, #06-07 Sim Lim Square, 188504, Singapore. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54508, 9/22/08.77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
Falcon International Trading Company, Level 39 Marina Bay Financial Center, Tower 2, 10 Marina Boulevard Singapore 018983. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 75174, 12/8/22.
Gryphon Aerospace, 36 Lorong N Telok Kurau Unit #03-03, Singapore 425160. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 74001, 12/5/08.
Hawk Electronic Supply Company, Level 39 Marina Bay Financial Center, Tower 2, 10 Marina Boulevard, Singapore 018983. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 75174, 12/8/22.
Hia Soo Gan Benson, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Benson Hia;—Soo Gan Benson Hia; and—Thomas Yan. Blk 8 Empress Road, #0705, Singapore 260008; and 2021 Bukit Batok Street 23, #02-212, Singapore 659626; and 111 North Bridge Road, #27-01 Peninsula Plaza, Singapore 179098; and 50 East Coast Road, #2-70 Roxy Square, Singapore 428769; and Block 1057 Eunos Avenue 3, #02-85, Singapore 409848. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 67062, 10/31/11.85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
Hossein Ahmad Larijani, 24 Semei Street 1, #06-08, Singapore 52996; and 10 Jalan Besar, #11-08 Sim Lim Tower, Singapore 208787. (See alternate addresses under Iran) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 67062, 10/31/11.
Huawei Cloud Singapore, Singapore, Singapore. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei International Pte. Ltd., Singapore. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei OpenLab, Singapore, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Huawei Singapore OpenLab, Singapore, Singapore. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
International Aerospace Asia, a.k.a. the following two aliases: —IAA —IntAero 14 Ann Siang Road, Singapore, 069694. (See alternate addresses under Malaysia, Thailand and United Kingdom.) | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Izix Group Pte Ltd., Number 26 Defu Lane 9, Singapore 539267; and 50 Bukit Batok Street, 23 #07-08 Midview Building, Singapore 659578. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 56003, 9/18/14.
Lim Kow Seng, a.k.a., the following five aliases:—Alvin Stanley;—Eric Lim;—James Wong;—Mike Knight; and—Seng Lim Kow. Blk 751 Woodlands Circle, #10-592, Singapore 730751; and 520 Sims Avenue, #02-04, Singapore 387580; and 2021 Bukit Batok Street 23, #02-212 Singapore 659626; and 111 North Bridge Road, #27-01 Peninsula Plaza, Singapore 179098; and 50 East Coast Road, #2-70 Roxy Square, Singapore 428769; and Block 1057 Eunos Avenue 3, #02-85, Singapore 409848. (See alternate addresses under China). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 67062, 10/31/11.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Lim Yong Nam, (a.k.a., Lin Rongnan, Steven Lim and Yong Nam Lim),170 Bukit Batok, West Avenue 8, #13-369, Singapore 650170; and 158 Kallang Way, #02-505 Kallang Basin, Singapore 349245; and 158 Kallang Way #03-511, Singapore 349245; and Blk 1001 Tai Seng Ave. #01-2522, Singapore 534411. (See alternate addresses under China) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 67062, 10/31/11.
Merlin Trading Company, a.k.a, the following one alias: —Merlin International Company. 195 Upper Paya Lebar Road, Singapore 534873. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 75174, 12/8/22.
Microsun Electronics Pte. Ltd, Sim Lim Tower, 10 Jalan Besar, Singapore 208787. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 1701, 1/13/10.
Monarch Aviation, 1 Scotts Road, Suite 25-06 Shaw Centre, Singapore 228208. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 74001, 12/5/08.
Mushko Logistics Pte. Ltd., Unit 04-01, Lip Hing Industrial Building, 3 Pemimpin Drive, Singapore; and 37 Pemimpin Drive, #06-12 MAPEX, Singapore; and Unit 04-01/03, Pandan Logistics Hub, 49 Pandan Road, Singapore; and 54 Lakeside Drive, #01-22 Caspian, Singapore. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18.
NEL Electronics, (a.k.a., NEL Electronics Pte Ltd),158 Kallang Way, #02-505 Kallang Basin, Singapore 349245; and 158 Kallang Way, #03-511, Singapore 349245; and Blk 1001 Tai Seng Ave. #01-2522, Singapore 534411. (See alternate addresses under China) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 67062, 10/31/11.
Opto Electronics Pte. Ltd, Suite 11-08, Sim Lim Tower, 10 Jalan Besar, Singapore 208787. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 1701, 1/13/10.
PowerAir Pte. Ltd., 1 Raffles Place, #36-01 One Raffles Place, 048616, Singapore. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4622, 1/16/25.
Pulse Tech International Company, Level 39 Marina Bay Financial Center, Tower 2, 10 Marina Boulevard, Singapore 018983. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 75174, 12/8/22.
Shanghai Fudan Microelectronics (HK) Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Shanghai Fudan Microelectronics (HK) Limited Singapore Branch; and —Shanghai Fudan Microelectronics (HK) Ltd. Singapore Representative Office. 8 Burn Road, #15-13, Trivex, Singapore 369977; and 47 Kallang Pudding Road, #08-06 The Crescent @Kallang, 349318, Singapore. (See alternate address under China and Taiwan). | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Skyverse Pte. Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Skyverse. #14-08, Keppel Bay Tower, 1 Harbourfront Avenue, 098632, Singapore. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Sophgo Technologies Pte. Ltd., #13-01/02/03, 9 Temasek Boulevard, Singapore; and 38 Beach Road, #29-11, South Beach Tower, 189767, Singapore. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 4622, 1/16/25.
Surftech Electronics, Block 1057 Eunos Avenue 3, #02-85 Singapore 409848. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 67062, 10/31/11.
Suzhou Keda Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a, the following alias: —Kedacom 1 Tannery Lane One Tat Seng #04-01, Singapore. (See alternate addresses under China, Netherlands, Pakistan, South Korea, and Turkey). | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
TechCamel Pte. Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —TechCamel; and —TECHCAMELTECHCAMEL PTE.LTD. 18 Sin Ming Lane, #07-40 Midview City, 573960, Singapore; and 320 Serangoon Road, #13-05 Centrium Square, 218108, Singapore; and 320 Serangoon Road, #21, 218108, Singapore. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Wong Yuh Lan, (a.k.a., Huang Yulan, Jancy Wong and Yuh Lan Wong), Blk 109B Edgedale Plains, #14115, Singapore 822109; and 10 Jalan Besar, #11-08 Sim Lim Tower, Singapore 208787. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 67062, 10/31/11.
Xinnlinx Electronics Pte Ltd, 152 Beach Road Gateway East Tower, #14-03, Singapore 189721. (See alternate address under China). | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Yip Kum Kuan, 36 Lorong N Telok Kurau, Unit #03-03, Singapore 425160. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 74001, 12/5/08.
SLOVAKIA | Incoff Aerospace S.R.O., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Incoff Group Polianky 3327/5 Bratislava—Mestska Cast Dubravka; Bratislavsky, 84101, Slovakia. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR). This license requirement may be overcome by License Exception GOV under § 740.11(b)(2) and (e) | Policy of denial; Case-by-case basis for items for U.S. Government supported use in the International Space Station (ISS) | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
SOUTH AFRICA | Ascenso Aviation, a.k.a. the following three aliases: —Ascenso Talent; —AMC Group (Pty) Ltd; and —Ascenso Flight Test. 44 Blue Crane Street, Monte Cristo, Mossel Bay, Western Cape, 6500 South Africa; and 1 Stephen Van Der Westhuizen Street, Mossel Bay, Western Cape, 6500, South Africa; and P.O. Box 230, Mossel Bay, 6520, South Africa; and 520 Van Rayneveld Drive, Pierre van Ryneveld, Centurion, 0045, South Africa; and P.O. Box 8120, Centurion, South Africa. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
AVIC International Flight Training Academy, 144 St. John St., James King and Badenhorst Office Western Cape, Oudtshoorn, Western Cape, 6620 South Africa; and P.O. Box 1, Oudtshoorn, 6620 South Africa; and AIFA Building, General Aviation Area, George Airport, 6529 George, Western Cape, South Africa; and Karoo Gateway Lodge, N1 Highway, Beaufort West Airport, 6790. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Blue Sky Aviation (Pty) Ltd., General Aviation Hangars, George Airport, Western Cape, George, 6530, South Africa. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Grace Air (Pty) Ltd, Hangar 1, Anderson Street, Oudtshoorn Air Field, Western Cape, Oudtshoorn, 6620, South Africa and 477 Witherite Road, Pretoria, South Africa. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 55035, 7/3/24.
Gunther Migeotte, 1 River Street, Rosebank, Cape Town, 7700, South Africa; and P.O. Box 36623, Menlo Park, 0102, South Africa; and 16 Manu Rua, 262 Sprite Avenue, Faerie Glen, 0081, South Africa; and Suite 17-106, The Waverley Business Park, Wyecroft Rd., Mowbray, Cape Town, 7925, South Africa. (See alternate address under Norway). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 36516, 6/28/10.77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
Huawei Cloud South Africa, Johannesburg, South Africa. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei OpenLab, Johannesburg, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Huawei Johannesburg OpenLab, Johannesburg, South Africa. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Technologies South Africa Pty Ltd., 128 Peter St Block 7 Grayston Office Park, Sandton, Gauteng, 1682, South Africa. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Icarus Marine (Pty) Ltd., 1 River Street, Rosebank, Cape Town, South Africa; and Suite 17-106, The Waverley Business Park, Wyecroft Rd., Mowbray, Cape Town, 7925, South Africa. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 36516, 6/28/10.77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
Pearl Coral 1173 CC, Unit B3 Centurion Business Park, Democracy Way, Western Cape Town, Western Cape, 7441 South Africa. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Ralph Brucher, P.O. Box 9523, Centurion 0046, South Africa; and Unit 4, Techni Park East, Alwyn Street, Meyerspark Silverton, Pretoria, Gauteng, South Africa; and Batter St, Techniec Park East, Silverton, Pretoria, 0184, South Africa; and 26 Jakaranda St, Centurion, Gauteng 0157, South Africa; and Jacaranda St, Hennopspark Ext 7, Centurion, South Africa. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 36516, 6/28/10.77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
Scavenger Manufacturing (Pty) Ltd., P.O. Box 288, Silverton, Pretoria 0127, South Africa; and Unit 4, Techni Park East, Alwyn Street, Meyerspark Silverton, Pretoria, Gauteng, South Africa; and Batter St, Techniec Park East, Silverton, Pretoria, 0184, South Africa; and 26 Jakaranda St, Centurion, Gauteng 0157, South Africa; and Jacaranda St, Hennopspark Ext 7, Centurion, South Africa; and P.O. Box 9523, Centurion 0046, South Africa. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 36516, 6/28/10.77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
Shawn Hugo De Villiers, 1 River Street, Rosebank, Cape Town 7700, South Africa; and Myburgii Street, Somerset West, Cape Town, South Africa; and Suite 17-106, The Waverley Business Park, Wyecroft Rd., Mowbray, Cape Town, 7925, South Africa. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 36516, 6/28/10.77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
The Test Flying Academy of South Africa, Hangar 3, Air Field, Anderson St, Oudtshoorn, 6620, South Africa. (See alternate address under People's Republic of China.) | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Wingman Concept (Pty) Ltd., Hangar 23, General Aviation Area, George Airport, George, Western Cape, 6530, South Africa. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
SOUTH KOREA | ACM Research Korea Co., Ltd., 402, Hyundai City Plaza, 2106 Gyeong chung-daero, Bubal-eup, Icheon-si, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Daesung International Trading, a.k.a. the following two aliases: —Daesung International Trade; and —Dae Sung International Trading. 716 Sangdong-ro, Sangdong-myeon, Gimhae, Gyeongsangnam-do, South Korea. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Empyrean Korea, No. 178, 602, Bangyoe-ro, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do (Sampyeong-dong), South Korea. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 96836, 12/5/24.
Joseph Choi, aka Yo-so'p Ch'oe, D-304, Songdo BRC Smart Valley 30 Songdomirae-ro Yeonsu-gu, Incheon, South Korea 406-840; and 4F Miejeong B/D, 405-216, MOK 1-Dong, Yangcheon-Ku, Seoul, South Korea. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 44849, 7/28/15.
Korea Automation Industry (KAI), D-304, Songdo BRC Smart Valley 30 Songdomirae-ro Yeonsu-gu, Incheon, South Korea 406-840; and 4F Miejeong B/D, 405-216, MOK 1-Dong, Yangcheon-Ku, Seoul, South Korea; and Number 102-704, Daewoo 2nd, 925-7 Dongchundong, Yeonsu-Ku, Incheon, South Korea. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 44849, 7/28/15.
Suzhou Keda Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a, the following alias:—Kedacom. #1802 Daeryung Techno 15th, 401 Simindaero Dongan-Gu, Gyunggi-Do, South Korea. (See alternate addresses under China, Netherlands, Pakistan, Singapore, and Turkey). | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
SOUTH SUDAN | Ascom Sudd Operating Company, a.k.a., the following one alias:—ASOC. South Sudan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18.
Dar Petroleum Operating Company, a.k.a., the following one alias:—DPOC. Zhongnan Hotel, on UNMISS Road, South Sudan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18.
DietsmannNile, Tomping District opposite Arkel Restaurant, two blocks north of Airport Road, Juba, South Sudan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18.
Greater Pioneer Operating Co. Ltd, a.k.a., the following one alias:—GPOC. South Sudan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18.
Juba Petrotech Technical Services Ltd. South Sudan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18.
Nile Delta Petroleum Company, Hai Malakai neighborhood, Juba, South Sudan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18.
Nile Drilling and Services Company, Hai Amarat, Airport Road, West Yat Building, Third Floor, Juba, South Sudan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18.
Nile Petroleum Corporation, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Nilepet. Tomping District opposite Arkel Restaurant, two blocks north of Airport Road, Juba, South Sudan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18.
Nyakek and Sons, Jubatown District near the Ivory Bank, Juba, South Sudan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18.
Oranto Petroleum, Referendum Road, Juba, South Sudan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18.
Safinat Group. South Sudan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18.
SIPET Engineering and Consultancy Services, a.k.a., the following one alias:—SPECS. Tomping District opposite Arkel Restaurant, two blocks north of Airport Road, Juba, South Sudan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18.
South Sudan Ministry of Mining, Nimra Talata, P.O. Box 376, Juba, South Sudan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18.
South Sudan Ministry of Petroleum, Ministries Road, Opposite the Presidential Palace, P.O. Box 376, Juba, South Sudan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18.
Sudd Petroleum Operating Co., a.k.a., the following one alias:—SPOC. Tharjath, Unity State, South Sudan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 12479, 3/22/18.
SPAIN | Aerofalcon S.L., Calle Ángel Cavero 28, Madrid, 28043, Spain. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 80957, 11/21/23.
I JET GLOBAL DMCC, a.k.a. the following five aliases: —iJet; —iJet Aviation Services; —iJET Flight Support Services; —Trade Med Middle East; and —Trade Mid Middle East. Plaza del Olivar, 1 4, Palma de Mallorca, Baleares H24 07002, Spain. (See alternate addresses under Malta, Syria, and United Arab Emirates). | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Invention Bridge SL, C/Provenza 281-2-9, 08006, Barcelona, Spain. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Majory LLP, Avinguda De Rhode 255, Roses (Girona), ES CT, 17480, Spain. (See alternate address under United Kingdom). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
SRI LANKA | Huawei Technologies Lanka Company (Private) Limited, Colombo, Sri Lanka. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
SWEDEN | Catomi Consulting AB, Grev Turegatan 14, 11446 Stockholm, Sweden. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Huawei Sweden, Skalholtsgatan 9-11 Kista, 164 40 Stockholm, Sweden. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
SWITZERLAND | Airfix Aviation Oy, Chemin des Papillons 4, Geneva/Cointrin 1216 Switzerland. (See also address under Finland) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15.
Chimconnect AG, Langaulistrasse 17, CH-9470 Buschs/SG, Switzerland. | For all items subject to the EAR | See §§ 744.2(d), 744.3(d), and 744.4(d) of this part | 86 FR 12531, 3/4/21.
Huawei Cloud Switzerland, Bern, Switzerland. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Technologies Switzerland AG, Liebefeld, Bern, Switzerland. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
LTS Holding Limited (f.k.a. IPP-International Petroleum Products Ltd.), Rue du Conseil-General 20, Geneva 1204, Switzerland. (See alternate address under United Kingdom) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 80646, 12/28/15.
Milur SA, Chemin des Planches 42, VAUD, AO 1066 Epalinges, Switzerland. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b), and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 75174, 12/8/22.
Phillip Zurcher, P.O. Box 117, CH-9242 Oberuzwil, Switzerland. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Rosneft Trading S.A., 2, Rue Place du Lac, 1204, Geneva, Switzerland. | For all items subject to the EAR when used in projects specified in § 746.8(a)(4) of the EAR | See § 746.8(b)(2) of the EAR | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15. 89 FR 51652, 6/18/24.
Travcon Aviation Group, P.O. Box 117, CH-9242 Oberuzwil, Switzerland. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
SYRIA | Adib Zeno, Damascus International Airport, Damascus Airport Motorway, Damascus, Syria. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 3580, 1/26/18.
Ag Yildiz Insaat Gayrimenkul Tasimacilik Pazarlama lthalat Ihracat ve Ticaret Ltd. Sirketi, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Ag Yildiz Cargo;—Ag Yildiz Gayrimenkul;—Yildiz Company; and—Yildiz Shipping Company. Al Bab, Syria. (See alternate addresses under Iraq and Turkey). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 57454, 8/23/16.
Cham Wings Airlines, Al-Fardous Street, Damascus, Syria. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
EDO-ELEMED, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—EDO ELEMED; and—EDO/ELEMED. 16 Parliament Street—Salhieh, Diab Building, Damascus, Syria; and P.O. Box 8126 Damascus Syria. (See also addresses under Lebanon) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19.
EKT Electronics, a.k.a. the following four aliases:—Katrangi Electronics;—Katrangi Trading;—Katranji Labs; and—Electronics Systems. #1 floor, 11/A, Abbasieh Building, Hijaz Street, P.O. Box 10112, Damascus, Syria; and #1 floor, 02/A, Fares Building, Rami Street, Margeh, Damascus, Syria. (See alternate addresses under Lebanon). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54509,9/22/08.76 FR 50407, 8/15/11.77 FR 24590, 4/25/12.
Elemed Liban, 16 Parliament Street—Salhieh, Diab Building, Damascus, Syria; and P.O. Box 8126 Damascus Syria. (See also address under Lebanon) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19.
Encyclopedia Electronics Center, a.k.a., Hassan Matni Import Export Co., Nazir Matni Electronics, Mosalam Baroudi Street, P.O. Box 12071, Halbouni, Damascus, Syria. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
Higher Institute of Applied Science and Technology (HIAST), a.k.a., Institut Superieur des Sciences Appliquées et de Technologie (ISSAT), Institut des Sciences Appliquées et de Technologie (ISAT), P.O. Box 31983, Barzeh, Damascus, Syria. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 70 FR 11861, 3/10/05.76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
I JET GLOBAL DMCC, a.k.a. the following five aliases: —iJet; —iJet Aviation Services; —iJET Flight Support Services; —Trade Med Middle East; and —Trade Mid Middle East. Damascus, Syria. (See alternate addresses under Malta, Spain, and United Arab Emirates). | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Industrial Establishment of Defense (IED), a.k.a., Industrial Establishment of Defence (IED), Établissements Industriels de la Défense (EID), Etablissement Industrial de la Defence (ETINDE), Al Thawraa Street, P.O. Box 2330, Damascus, Syria. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 70 FR 11861, 3/10/05.76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
Jamal Jum'ah al-Shawi, Al Bab, Syria. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 57454, 8/23/16.
Mohammed Katranji, #1 floor, 11/A, Abbasieh Building, Hijaz Street, P.O. Box 10112, Damascus, Syria; and #1 floor, 02/A, Fares Building, Rami Street, Margeh, Damascus, Syria. (See alternate address under Lebanon) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
Muhammad `ulwan Al-Shawi, Al Bab, Syria. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 57454, 8/23/16.
National Standards and Calibration Laboratory (NSCL), a.k.a., Scientific Studies and Research Center (SSRC)-NSCL, Institut National Calibration Centre, P.O. Box 4470, Damascus, Syria. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 70 FR 11861, 3/10/05.76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
Rahal Corporation for Technology and Medical Supplies, 16 Parliament Street—Salhieh, Diab Building, Damascus, Syria; and P.O. Box 8126 Damascus Syria. (See also address under Lebanon) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19.
Rahal Establishment, 16 Parliament Street—Salhieh, Diab Building, Damascus, Syria; and P.O. Box 8126 Damascus Syria. (See also address under Lebanon) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19.
Rizk Ali, Damascus International Airport, Damascus Airport Motorway, Damascus, Syria. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 3580, 1/26/18.
Scientific Studies and Research Center (SSRC), a.k.a., Center for Scientific Studies and Research (SSRC), Scientific Studies Research Centre (SSRC), Centre d'Etudes et de Recherches Scientifiques (CERS), Center for Study and Research (CERS), Scientific Studies and Research Council, Syrian Scientific Research Council, Scientific Research Council (SRC), P.O. Box 4470, Damascus, Syria. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 70 FR 11861, 3/10/05.76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
Sekirin Tekstil Ithalat Ihracat le ve Dis Ticaret Limited Sirketi, a.k.a., the following seven aliases:—Sekirin Textiles Export Import Limited Company;—Al Shakirin International Transport Company;—Shakirin Company;—Shakrin Company;—Sekirin Ticaret;—Al Shakirin Company; and—Sekirin Company. Al Bab, Syria. (See alternate addresses under Iraq and Turkey). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 57454, 8/23/16.
Ukraine Mediterranean Airlines, a.k.a., UM Airlines, UM Air, 29 Ayar Str., Julia Dumna building, Damascus, Syria. (See alternate addresses under Iran and Ukraine) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
TAIWAN | Arthur Shyu, 3F-1 No. 52, SEC 2, Chung Shan N. Road, Taipei 104 Taiwan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 22640, 4/23/15.
Corad Taiwan Representative Office, 1A, No. 30 Jiazheng 9th St., Zhubei City, Hsinchu County 30274; and 3F-1, No. 1008, Sec. 4, Johngsing Rd., Jhudong Township, Hsinchu County, 310 Taiwan. (See also addresses under China for this entry, which is listed as Corad Technology Limited). | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 67319, 11/26/21.
Enrich Ever Technologies Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Enrich Ever Technologies Co., 9F No. 38 Ming-Fu 13th Street, Taoyuan, Taiwan; and 8F, No. 431, Da-You Road, Taoyuan, Taiwan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.
Hangzhou Hualan Microelectronics Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following five aliases:—Hangzhou Hualan Microelectronique Co., Ltd.;—Hualan Micro;—Sage Microelectronics Corporation;—Sage Micro; and—Hangzhou Huasheng Microelectronics. 8th Floor-3, No. 192 Ruiguang Road, Neihu District, Taipei City, Taiwan. (See alternate addresses under China). | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Hivocal Technology Company, Ltd., 10F, No. 736, Jhongjheng Road, Jhonghe City, Taipei County 235, Taiwan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.
Infinity Wise Technology Limited, Flat/RMA 6/F, Man Wing Building 503-507 Nathan Road Yaumate 1, Taiwan; and 8F, No. 431, Da-You Road Taoyuan, Taiwan. (See alternate addresses under China). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Inspur Taiwan, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Number Media Ltd.; —Inspur Taiwan—R&D Center; and —Digital Cloud Ltd. No. 16 Xinzhan Rd Banqiao District, New Taipei City, Taiwan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(e)(2) and 744.11 of the EAR) 4 | Policy of denial | 90 FR 14048, 3/28/25.
Kuang-Su Corporation, 8F, No. 431, Da-You Road, Taoyuan, Taiwan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.
Landstar Tech Company Ltd., 13/F, Number 181, Sec 1, Datong Rd., Sijhih City, Taipei, Taiwan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 7359, 2/19/10.
Neotec Semiconductor Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Xinde Technology. 4F-1., No. 32, Taiyuan St., Hsinchu County 302, Zhubei City, Taiwan; and Tai Yuen Industrial Park 32 Tai Yuen St FL 4 No Zhubei, Wallis and Futuna 302, Taiwan; and 4f No. 32 Taiyuan St. Chupei City, 30265, Taiwan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 13675, 3/6/23.
Xunwei Technologies Co., Ltd., Taipei, Taiwan. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Yi-Lan Chen, a.k.a., Kevin Chen, 13/F, Number 181, Sec 1, Datong Rd., Sijhih City, Taipei, Taiwan, and 7th Floor, Number 17, Zhonghua Rd., Sec 2, Xinzhuang City, Taipei, Taiwan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 75 FR 7359, 2/19/10.
THAILAND | Asian Aviation Logistics Co., Ltd., 21 Tower 2nd Floor Zone A805 Srinakarin Road, Suanluang Bangkok 10250 Thailand; and 111/11 Village 0.14 Kingkaew Road, Rajatheva, Bangplee District, Samutprakarn 10540, Thailand; and 188/5 Moo 5 Srinakarin Rd, Samrongnua, Muang, Samut Prakarn 10270, Thailand. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Huawei Cloud Thailand, Bangkok, Thailand. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei OpenLab Bangkok, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Huawei Bangkok OpenLab. Bangkok, Thailand. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Technologies (Thailand) Co., 87/1 Wireless Road, 19th Floor, Capital Tower, All Seasons Place, Pathumwan, Bangkok, 10330, Thailand. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
International Aerospace Asia, a.k.a. the following two aliases: —IAA; and —IntAero. 280, Moo 9, Luang Nua, Doi Saket, Chiang Mai 50220 Thailand; and 188 Moo 1, San Klang San Kampheang, Chiang Mai 50130 Thailand. (See alternate addresses under Malaysia, Singapore, and United Kingdom.) | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Khalidee Boolay Surinanda, a.k.a., the following one alias: Khalidee Boolay Surinandha. 21 Tower 2nd Floor Zone A805 Srinakarin Road, Suanluang Bangkok 10250 Thailand; and 111/11 Village 0.14 Kingkaew Road, Rajatheva, Bangplee District, Samutprakarn 10540, Thailand; and 111/11 Village 0.14 King Kaeo Road, Racha Thewa Sub-District, Bang Phli District, Samut Prakarn, 10540, Thailand. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Kosol Surinanda, a.k.a., the following one alias: Kosol Surinandha.140/65 ITF Tower, 27 Floor, Silom Rd., Suriyawongse, Bangrak, Bangkok, 10500, Thailand; and 21 Tower 2nd Floor Zone A805 Srinakarin Road, Suanluang Bangkok 10250 Thailand; and495 Soi Anamai, Srinakarin Road, Suanluang Bangkok 10250 Thailand;and 111/11 Village 0.14 Kingkaew Road, Rajatheva, Bangplee District, Samutprakarn 10540, Thailand; and 111/11 Village 0.14 King Kaeo Road, Racha Thewa Sub-District, Bang Phli District, Samut Prakarn, 10540, Thailand. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Marilog Avion Services Company, Limited, 987 Silom Road, Bang Rak, Bangkok, Thailand, 10500. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Mohamad Rifan, 987 Silom Road, Bang Rak, Bangkok, Thailand, 10500. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Mostafa Oveici, a.k.a., the following one alias: Mosi Oveici. 21 Tower 2nd Floor Zone A805 Srinakarin Road, Suanluang Bangkok 10250 Thailand. (See alternate address under Iran) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Shanghai Fudan Microelectronics (HK) Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Shanghai Fudan Microelectronics (HK) Ltd., Taiwan Representative Office; and —Shanghai Fudan Microelectronics (HK) Limited Taiwan Branch. Room 1225, 12th Floor, No. 252, Section 1, Neihu Road, Neihu District, Taipei City, 114, Taiwan. (See alternate address under China and Singapore). | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
TURKEY | 3K Aviation Consulting and Logistics, a.k.a., the following one alias:—3K Havacilik ve Danismanlik SAN. TIC. LTD. ST Biniciler Apt. Savas Cad. No. 18/5, Sirinyali Mah. 07160, Antalya, Turkey; and Sonmez Apt. No. 4⁄5 1523 Sokak, Sirinyali Mah. 07160, Antalya, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 44824, 9/4/18.
Abbas Goldoozan, Kimya IC VE Dis Ticaret Ltd., 2nd Floor, No. 2, Istanbul, Turkey; and Yesil Tulumba A, Istanbul, Turkey 34134. (See also alternate address under Iran). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 22640, 4/23/15.
Address 01, No: 52 Hasat Sk., Kamara Iç Kapi No: 1, Merkez Mah., Sisli, Istanbul, 34381, Turkey. | For items on the CCL and EAR99 items listed in supplement no. 7 to part 746 of the EAR. | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Aeolian Airlines, Ozgur KK No 4 Da 5 Davran Ap Flo, Istanbul, Turkey; and Davran Ap Florya, Istanbul, Turkey 34153; and Attaturk Airport, Istanbul, Turkey. (See alternate addresses under Greece) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Ag Yildiz Insaat Gayrimenkul Tasimacilik Pazarlama lthalat Ihracat ve Ticaret Ltd. Sirketi, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Ag Yildiz Cargo;—Ag Yildiz Gayrimenkul;—Yildiz Company; and—Yildiz Shipping Company. Guneykent Mah. Universite Blv. Tuze Sitesi Alti No: 393/B, Sahinbey, Gaziantep, Turkey. (See alternate addresses under Iraq and Syria). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 57454, 8/23/16.
Ala al-Shawi, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Abu Cemal. 60147 Caddesi No. 23, Sanayi Mahallesi, Sehitkamil, Gaziantep, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 57454, 8/23/16.
Alesta World Dis Ticaret Ltd, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Alesta World Diş Ticaret Limited Şirketi. Inonu Mah. Ulusu Cad. Ruzgar Sk. Deniz, Apt No:10, D:4, Atasehir, Istanbul, Turkey; and No:7-10 Inonu Mahallesi, Ruzgar Sokak, Atasehir, Istanbul, 34755, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Ali Guzel, 60147 Caddesi No. 23, Sanayi Mahallesi, Sehitkamil, Gaziantep, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 57454, 8/23/16.
All Global Trading Elektronik Dis Ticaret Ltd Sti, NO:460 Bağdat Caddesi, Iç Kapı NO: 12 Ofis 5 34846, Cevizli Mahallesi Maltepe, Istanbul, Turkey; and No:4 Kosar Street, Pilot Deri Binasi. Iç Kapı No: z01, Aydinli Sb Mahallesi,. Tuzla, Istanbul, Turkey; and No:460/12 Bagdat Caddesi Maltepe, Cevizli Mahallesi, Istanbul (Anatolia), 34846, Turkey; and 225 Sokak, Summer Park Sitesi D Blok, No: 8d/22 Oba Mahallesi, Alanya Antalya 07450 Turkey. (For alternate addresses, see Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
AR Kompozit Kimya, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—AR Composites Company Ltd; and—AR Kompozit Kimya Muhendislik Taah Dis Tic Ltd. Kuyumcukent 2, Plaza Kat 5, No 9, Yenibosna, Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 2887, 1/10/17.
ASR Trans Lojistik Ve Dis Tic Ltd Sti, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —ASR Transit; —ASR International Trade Dis Tic. Ltd. Şti.; —ASR Trade Grup; and —Clef Trade. Değirmen Sok. No:9, Cemal Bey Is Mrkz. Kat:6 D.: 23/25 Pk:34742, Kozyatagi Mah., Kadiköy—Kadiköy, İstanbul, Turkey; and Degirmen Sk., Cemal Bey Is Merkezi 11 13, Kozyatagi Mah., Kadikoy, Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Atadoruk Havacilik Savunma Sanayi Ticaret Limited Sirketi, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —ATA Doruk Aviation; and —Atadoruk Aviation. 29 Alacakent Sitesi, Block C 3356 Sokak Alacaatli Mahallesi Ankara, Turkey; and Yesilova Mah. 4048 Cadde Begonvil APT A2 Blok No. 11 Etimesgut, Ankara, 06720, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
Atempo Proje Taahhüt Ses ve Görüntü Sistemleri Anonim Şirketi İstanbul Şubesi, Bülent Ecevit Bulvarı No: 141/A, Lara, Antalya, 07230, Turkey; and Taşpınar Mah. 2899 No: 5 İncek Gölbaşı, Ankara, Turkey; and Esentepe Mah. Gazeteciler Sit. Yazarlar Sok. No: 10, İstanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Atlas Trade Dis Ticaret Limited, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Atlas Trade Dis Tic Ltd Sti. No: 12 Mecidiyekoy Road., Trump Tower Interior Door No: 221, Kustepe Mah., Sisli, Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Aviatech Havacilik Sanayi Ve Yedek Parcalari Ltd Sti, No: 13 K: 7 D: 192 Mustafa Akyol Sok., MVK Work Square, A2 Blok, Yenişehir Mah. Pendik, Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Avistar Havacilik Bilisim Turizm Insaat Sanayi Ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi, Yenibosna Dogu Sanayi Sitesi, 9 Blok No: 1, Bahcelievler—Istanbul, Turkey; and Dogu Sanayi Sitesi 9. Blok No:9/1 Yenibosna, Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Azu International Bilgi Teknolojileri Ve Dis Ticaret Limited Sirketi, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Azu International Information Technologies and Foreign Trade Limited Company; and —Azu International Ltd Sti. Huseyinaga neighborhood Istiklal St., Grandpera Block No: 56-58 Inner door No: 5, Beyoglu, Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
B2M Lojistik Ve Dis Ticaret Anonim Sirketi, Giyim Sanatkarları 3A Blok Sok. 3.Ada A Blok, Kat:5 No:506, İOSB Mah., Başakşehir, Istanbul, Turkey; and Giyim Sanatkarları 3A Blok Sok. 3.Ada A Blok, Kat:5 No:508, İOSB Mah., Başakşehir, Istanbul, Turkey; and No:9/2Madalya Sok., Haraççı Mah., Arnavutköy, Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Bion Group Ic Ve Dis Ticaret Limited Sirketi, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Bion Trade Group Limited; and —Bion Group Ltd Sti. Maslak Mah. Büyükdere Cad. Noramin İş Merkezi No: 237 İç Kapi No: 202—Sariyer Istanbul, Turkey. (See alternate address under China). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Biopharmist Medikal Urunler Dis Ticaret LTD STI, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Biopharmist; and —Biopharmist Medikal. D-134956, Orta Mah. Oztes Sk, No.3, Orhanli, Tuzla, Istanbul, Turkey; and Inonu Mah., 19 Mayis Cd., No 106-5, Atasehir, Istanbul 34755, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Blue Lines FZE, Unit 2706, Floor 27, Maslak Baybigiz Plaza, 34396, Istanbul, Turkey. (see alternate address under United Arab Emirates). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
BRK Uluslararasi Nakliyat Tic. Ltd. Sti, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —BRK Group Uluslararası Nakliyat ve Ticaret Ltd. Sti; and —BRK Customs Brokerage Ltd Sti. Kocasinan Cad. Kaman Iş Merkezi No:1 Kat:2 Ofis No:7/8, Bahçelievler, İstanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Business Metal Sanayi Ve Dis Ticaret Limited Sirketi, No: 3-232 Tasocagi Yolu Caddesi, Agaoglu My Office 212 Sitesi, Mahmutbey Mahallesi, Bagcilar, Istanbul (Europe) 34218, Turkey; and Atatürk Street A1 Block No: 10/1, Floor: 8 Office No: 291, Yesilkoy, Bakirkoy, Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
BuyBest Electronic, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Buy Best Electronic Pars; —Buybest Elektronik İthalat İhracat Limited Şirketi; and —Andriman Group İnşaat İthalat İhracat Sanayi Ve Ticaret Limited Şirketi. 19 Mayis mah, Halaskargazi cad, Polat pasaji, No:158, D:96 Şişli, Istanbul, Turkey. (See alternate addresses under China and Iran.) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24. 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Cenk Ozturk, Aktepe Sanayi Sitesi, Kinalikar Sokak, Orta Mahalle No. 19, Orhanli-Tuzla, Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 24245, 5/26/17.
Confienza Pazarlama Ve Ticaret Anonim Sirketi, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Confienza Gida Pazarlama Ve Ticaret Anonim Sirketi; and —Confienza. No.10 Cemre Sokak, Bebek Mahallesi, Besiktas Municipality, Istanbul Province, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Cozum Yazilim Donanim Elektronik Ic Ve Dis Tic A S, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Cozum Yazilim Donanim A S. No:54/B Gazi Mustafa Kemal Bulvari, Maltepe, Cankaya, Ankara, 06570, Turkey; and GMK. Bulvarı, No: 54/B, 06570, Maltepe/Ankara, Turkey; and Zübeyde Hanım Mah. Kazım, Karabekir Cd. No:27/1, Altındağ/Ankara, Turkey; and Yukarı Dudullu Mah. Necip, Fazıl Blv. Keyap Çarşı Sit. G2, Blk. No:125 Ümraniye/İstanbul, Turkey; and Niyazi Mahallesi Tuna Sokak, No:4 Ilıcak Plaza Kat:3 İç Kapı, No:14 Battalgazi/Malatya, Turkey; and No.11 Sarigazi,Meclis Mah. Ataturk Cad. Kanarya Sok. Umraniye Istanbul, 34764, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
CTL Dis Ticaret Limited Sirketi, Nisbetiye Mah. Gazi Güçnar Sk. Uygur Iş Merkezi Blok No: 4 İc Kapı No: 2 Beşiktaş/Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
CTM Dis Ticaret Ltd. Sti., a.k.a., the following four aliases: —CTM International Trade LLC; —CTM International Trade Ltd.; —CTM Lojistik; and —Armax Ballistics. Hilal Mahallesi Holzmeister Caddesi 14/B Çankaya 06550, Ankara, Turkey; and İrfan Başbuğ Cd. No:231 Keçiören/Ankara, Turkey; and 17-66 Portakal Cicegi Sokak, Cankaya, Ankara, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
DBC Makina Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S., a.k.a., the following one alias: —D B C Makina Sanayi Ve Ticaret Anonim Sirketi. 23.Sk No: 9, Mermerciler Sanayii Sitesi, Koseler Mahallesi, 41455 Dilovasi/Kocaeli, Turkey; and Mermerciler Sanayi Sitesi, 23. S Anatolia Area Ta Dilovasi, Koseler, Kocaeli, 41900, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
Dentun Elektronik, Marmara Mah. Önder Cad., İhlas Marmara Evleri 1. Kisim C8 Blok No:8B İc Kapı No:4, İstanbul, 34524, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Dexias Industrial Products and Trade Limited Company, a.k.a., the following five aliases: —Dexias; —Dexias Endil strivel; —Dexias IPTLC; —Mainbox LLC; and —Orunler ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi. Mecidivekoy Street, Trump Towers Bloc No: 12/221 Sisli/Istanbul, Turkey. (See alternate address under Russia). | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 744.21(b), and 746.8(a)(3) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
DML Group Makine Pazarlama Ic Ve Dis Ticaret Ltd Sirketi, No: 52 Hasat Sk., Kamara İç Kapı No: 1, Merkez Mah., Şişli, Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
EB Teknoloji Sistemleri Anonim Şirketi, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Algoritma Bilişim Sistemleri a.ş. Bülent Ecevit Bulvarı No: 141/A Lara, Antalya, 07230, Turkey; and Taşpınar Mah. 2899 No: 5 İncek Gölbaşı, Ankara, Turkey; and Esentepe Mah. Gazeteciler Sit. Yazarlar Sok. No: 10b İstanbul, Turkey; and Bayraktar Mah. Macka Sk. Birlik Apt. No:5 İç Kapı No:1 Ankara, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
ERA Metalurji San. Ve Tic. Ltd. Sti., Aktepe Sanayi Sitesi, Kinalikar Sokak, Orta Mahalle No. 19, Orhanli-Tuzla, Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 24245, 5/26/17.
Ercetin Is Makinalari Yedek Parcalari Insaat Ve Dis Ticaret Limited Sirketi, Dogal Kagit, No: 3 Ferman Caddesi, Cumhuriyet Mahallesi Kartal, Istanbul (Anatolia), 34876, Turkey; and Organize Sanayi Bolgesi, Bagcilar—Gungoren Sanayi Sitesi 13a Blok No: 21-22-23-24-25 Marmara Bolgesi, Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
Ergin Turker, Yenibosna Dogu Sanayi Sitesi, 9 Blok No: 1, Bahcelievler—Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Ervacan Makina Ekipmanları ve Sanayi Tedarik Ltd Şti., a.k.a., the following six aliaes: —Ervacan; —Ervacan Makina Ekipmanlari Ve Sanayi Tedarik Ltd. Sti.; —Ervacan Machinery Equipment and Industry Supply Ltd.; —Ervacan Makina; —Ervacan Makina Ekipmanlari Ve Sanayi Tedarik Limited Sirketi; and —Ervacan Makina Ltd. Küçükbakkalköy Mah., Defne Sok., Flora Suite Office, KNo: 1, DNo: 365, PK, 34750, Ataşehir, İstanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Eslem Global Pazarlama Sanayi ve Ticaret, PO Box 34122, Sultanahmet, Fetih, Istanbul, Turkey; and Divanyolu Caddesi No: 15/408 Sultanahmet Fatih Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19.
Eurocenter Havacilik Dis Ticaret Limited Sirketi, Kemalpasa Mh, Ordu Cad., Yesil Tulumba Sk No 9, Fatih, Istanbul, Turkey; and Yesil Tulumba Eminonu Sok No. 9, Eminonu—Istanbul, Turkey 34143; and Yesil Tulumba Sk: No 9 Fatih, Eminonu Istanbul, Turkey 34143; and Senlikkoy Mahallesi, Ozgur Sk No. 4, Da: 5, Davran Ap Florya, 34153 Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Fulya Kalafatoglu Oguzturk, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Macide Fulya Kalafatoglu. Barajyolu Cd Yenisehir Mh Sinpas Koruk Konutlari No 40 Sogut Blok D1 Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 2887, 1/10/17.
Gensis Engineering, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Gensis Muhendislik Danismanlik. Fevzi Cakmak Mah., Malazgirt Cad 58/5, Pendik, Istanbul, Turkey. (see alternate address under Georgia). | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Golsad Istanbul Trading, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Golsad Import-Export. Kimya IC VE Dis Ticaret Ltd., 2nd Floor, No. 2, Istanbul, Turkey; and Yesil Tulumba A, Istanbul, Turkey 34134. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 22640, 4/23/15.
Gulnihal Yegane, Egs Bloklari B-1 Blok K.1 No: 114, Yesilkoy Bakirkoy, Istanbul, Turkey; and Huzur mah, Ayazaga Oyak sitesi, 9. Blok, No: 19, Sisli, Istanbul, Turkey; and Turgut Reis Mh. Glyimkent Kath Is Merk. K:4 D:4412 Esenler/Istanbul, Turkey; and Onucreis Mah. Giyimkent Sitesi 3. Sokak No:118 Esenler/Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Huawei OpenLab Istanbul, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Huawei Istanbul OpenLab. Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huseyin Engin Borluca, Biniciler Apt. Savas Cad. No. 18/5, Sirinyali Mah. 07160, Antalya, Turkey; and Sonmez Apt. No. 4⁄5 1523 Sokak, Sirinyali Mah. 07160, Antalya, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 44824, 9/4/18.
Ix Medikal Buro Malzemeleri Ticaret Limited Sirketi, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —Ix Elektronik Ic Ve Dis Ticaret Ltd Sirketi; —Ix Elektronik Ic Ve Dis Ticaret Limited Serketi; —Ix Elektronik Ic Ve Dis Ticaret Limited Sirkety; —Ix Electronics Domestic and Foreign Trade Limited; —Ix Electronics Domestic and Foreign Trade Limited Company Istanbul Industry and Trade Free Zone Branch; and —Ix Elektronik İç Ve Diş Ticaret Limited Şirketi. Mah 225, Sokak-1 Summ, Alanya/Antalya, 07460, Turkey; and No:8, D, Sok Summer Park Sitesi, Oba Mahallesi 225, Alanya/Antalya, 07450, Turkey; and No:8D-23, D Block, Summer Park Sitesi, Oba Mahallesi 225, Alanya/Antalya, 07450, Turkey; and No:8 D BL, Summer Park Sitesi, Oba Mahallesi 225, Alanya/Antalya, 07450, Turkey; and Block No:4, Inside Door No: z01, PiloT Deri BinasI, Kosar Cad, Aydinli Sb Mah, Tuzla/Istanbul, 34953, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Karasani Dis Ticaret Limited Sirketi, a.k.a., the following 11 aliases: —Karasani Group Companies; —Karasani Trade; —Karasani Logistic; —Karasani Packing; —Karvan International Logistics; —Karasani Foreign Trade Limited Company; —Arizai Gida Ticaret Limited Sirketi; —Improtex Foreign Trade Limited Liability Company; —Improtex LLC; —Improtex; and —Improtex Dis Ticaret Limited Sirketi. Selale Caddesi No. 13E, Bahcesehir 2, Kısım Mahallesi, Basaksehir, Istanbul, Turkey; and Cevval Sokak No: 1/3, Ic Kapi No: 180, Cumhuriyet Mahallesi, Buyukcekmece, Istanbul, 34500, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Kayi Bilişim Elektronik Enerji Madencilik Ve Danismanlik Ltd. Şti., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Kayi Enerji. No:1 Ivedik OSB Mahallesi, 2224 Caddesi, Yenimahalle, Ankara 06378, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Kral Aviation, a.k.a., the following two aliases: Kral Havacilik Ic Ve Dis Ticaret Sirketi; and Kral Aviation Ltd. Senlikkoy Mah, Gumus Sok, No: 1/3, Floor: 11, Florya 134159, Istanbul, Turkey; and Senlikkoy Mah. Gumus Sok. No 3/1 Floor: 1 Florya Istanbul, 34153 Turkey and Yesilkoy Mh. Ataturk Cad. EGS Business Park Bloklari B2 Blok Kat:6, Istanbul Turkey | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Kral Aviation Services Ltd., Yesilkoy Mh.Ataturk Cd., Esg Business Park B1. B2 K:6 No:234, Bakirkoy Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
LL Chip Elektrik Elektronic Paz, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —LL Chip Elektrik Elektronik Pazarlama Ic ve Dis Ticaret Limited Sirketi; —LL Chip Ltd.; and —LL Chip Electric Electronic Marketing Domestic and Foreign Trade Limited Company. Merkez Mah., Hasat Sokak Kamara, No: 52, Şişli, Istanbul, 34360, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Luqman Yasin Yunus Shgragi, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Lkemanasel Yosef; and—Luqman Sehreci. Savcili Mahalesi Turkmenler Caddesi No:2, Sahinbey, Gaziantep, Turkey; and Sanayi Mahalesi 60214 Nolu Caddesi No 11, SehitKamil, Gaziantep, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 57454, 8/23/16.
Madena Otomotiv Insaat Elektronik Tic Ltd, 67.Sk. Konut No: 4 İç Kapi No: 13, Yakuplu Mah., Beylikdüzü, Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Megasan Elektronik Ticaret Ve Sanayi A.S., One Block Umraniye Blok, No:16-72 Fatih Sultan Mahallesi, Depoyolu Sokak, Umraniye, Istanbul 34771, Turkey; and Poligon Caddesi, Oneblock İş Merkezi Kat:11, Umraniye, Istanbul 34771, Turkey; and Perpa Ticaret Merkezi no 1409 Kat 11, Istanbul, 34384, Turkey; and Beylikdüzü Organize Sanayi Mahallesi Mermerciler Sanayi Sitesi 5. Cad. No:15 Beylikdüzü, Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Mehmet Cingi, Aktepe Sanayi Sitesi, Kinalikar Sokak, Orta Mahalle No. 19, Orhanli-Tuzla, Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 24245, 5/26/17.
Mehmet Yari, P.O. Box 34122, Sultanahmet, Fetih, Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19.
Mia Antalya Insaat Sanayi Ve Ticaret A.S., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Mia Ticaret A.S.; and —Antalya Mia. No:109/4, Eski Lara Cad. Funda Apartmani, Şirinyali Mah., Muratpaşa, Antalya, Turkey; and 4550. Sk. No:04, Safak, 07220, Kepez, Antalya, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Miray Global Sanayi Ve Ticaret, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Miray Global Havacilik Sanayi Ve Ticaret As; and —United Aviation Solutions. Altinova Orta Mah., 30 Nolu Sok., A Blok, Sitesi Yilmaz Turk Sit. Blok No: 14A/2 Kepez, Antalya, Turkey; and Antalya Airport Service Buildings Zone A Gate No.44, A Muratpaşa/Antalya, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Murat Peker, Mah. Idris Kosku Caddesi Kutu, Sokak No: 1 Pierreloti/Eyup, Instanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Murat Taskiran, Kuyumcukent 2, Plaza Kat 5, No 9, Yenibosna, Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 2887, 1/10/17.
Orel Dis Ticaret Ltd., a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Orel Dis Ticaret Limited Sirketi; and —Orel Foreign Trade Limited Company. 632. Sokak No. 6/A, Alaaddinbey Mahallesi, Nilufer, Bursa, 16120, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Panorama Invest Dis Ticaret As, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Panorama Invest Dis Ticaret Anonim Sirketi; —Panorama İnvest Diş Ticaret Anonim Şirketi; and —Panorama Invest Foreign Trade Company. EGS Business Park B212-8, DTM, Bakhiroy/Istanbul, 34149, Turkey; and EGS Business Park B2 8, Dunya Ticaret Merkezi, Yesilkoy Mahallesi, Bakirkoy/Istanbul, 34149, Turkey; and EGS Business Park B2 8, World Trade Center, Yeşilköy Neighborhood, Bakirkoy/Istanbul, 34149, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Pioneer Logistics Havacilik Turizm Yonetim Danismanlik Ithalat Ihracat San. Tic. Ltd. Sti, Egs Bloklari B-1 Blok Kat: 1 No; 114, Yesilkoy Bakirkoy, Istanbul, Turkey and Huzur mah, Ayazaga Oyak sitesi, 9. Blok, No:19, Sisli, Istanbul, Turkey; and Turgut Reis Mh. Glyimkent Kath Is Merk. K:4 D:4412 Esenler/Istanbul, Turkey and Onucreis Mah. Giyimkent Sitesi 3. Sokak No:118 Esenler/Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
PMR Teknik Makine Ticaret Limited Sirketi, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Roziba Inan Co. Yener Apt, No: 2-5 Feyzullah Mahallesi, Ruveyda Sokak, Maltepe, Istanbul, 34843, Turkey; and Aydintepe Batu sok No 27, Evora T parsel, Tuzla-Istanbul, Turkey; and No: 36/4 Maresal Fevzi Cakmak Cad, Deniz Sitesi, Maltepe Yali Mah, Maltepe, Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
Ramor Group, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Ramor Construction Food and Furniture Incorporation;—Ramor Ins;—Ramor Company; and—Ramor Ltd. Co. Unit 42, Gardenya Plaza 7⁄1, 12th Floor, No: 77, Atasehir, Istanbul, Turkey 34758; and 1st.End. ve.Tic.Serbest Bol.Sub. Kopuzlar Cad.No.8 Solingen Zemin Kat Tuzla/Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 2887, 1/10/17.
Ramses Turizm Isletmesi Danismanlik, a.k.a., the following alias: —RMS Technic. Yenigol Mah. Serik Cad. Antalya Havalimani No: 100 Muratpasa, Antalya, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Reka Grup Danismanlik ve Tic Ltd Sti, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Reka Global. 274-1 Sokak, No:1-16, Bahcelievler Mahallesi, Golbasi, Ankara 06065, Turkey; and Üniversitesi Caddesi, Paragon Tower, Çankaya, Ankara 06510, Turkey, and Yalı, Mithatpaşa Cd. No:409, 35310 Güzelbahçe/İzmir, Turkey; and Ahmet Mithat Efendi Sk. 18/A, Güzeltepe, 06690 Çankaya/Ankara, Turkey; and 274. Sk. No:12/F, Bahçelievler, 06830 Gölbaşı/Ankara, Turkey. (See alternate address under Malaysia.) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Resit Tavan, Turgotozl CD Agaoglu MySkyTowers, A Blok D 12, Istanbul, Turkey 34758. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 2887, 1/10/17.
RLY Ic Ve Dis Ticaret Limited Sirketi, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —RLY Sey. Uru. Tic. And San. Ltd. Sti.; and —RLY Project. No:3, Kap, Barbaros Ihlamur Bulv. Agaoglu My Newwork, Atasehir, Istanbul, 34746, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Scitech Tasimacilik Ticaret Limited, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Scitech Tasimacililk Ticaret, Limited Sirketi; and —Scitech Transport Trade Limited Company. 235 SK Kamac, Apt No. 6, Ic Kapi No. 3, Yildiz Mah., Muratpasa, Antalya, 11111, Turkey; and 37 Sokak, Cengizhan Apt Block No: 6/102, Kisla Mah., Muratpasa, Antalya, 07040, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Sekirin Tekstil Ithalat Ihracat le ve Dis Ticaret Limited Sirketi, a.k.a., the following seven aliases:—Sekirin Textiles Export Import Limited Company;—Al Shakirin International Transport Company;—Shakirin Company;—Shakrin Company;—Sekirin Ticaret;—Al Shakirin Company; and—Sekirin Company. Savcili Mahalesi Turkmenler Caddesi No:2, Sahinbey, Gaziantep, Turkey; and Sanayi Mahalesi 60214 Nolu Caddesi No 11, Sehit Kamil, Gaziantep, Turkey. (See alternate addresses under Iraq and Syria). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 57454, 8/23/16.
Seyyed Abdolreza Mousavi, Kemalpasa Mh, Ordu Cad., Yesil Tulumba Sk No 9, Fatih, Istanbul, Turkey. (See alternate address under Greece) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Sisdoz Aritma Ve Pompa Teknolojileri Sanayi Ticaret Anonim Sirketi, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Sisdoz A.S.; and —Sisdoz Dozlama Sistemleri Uretim Ve Pazarlama Limited Sirketi. No: 1/A Atilla Cad., Kayisdagi Mahallesi, Atasehir, Istanbul, 34755, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
Smart Trading Tasimacilik San Ve Tic Ltd Sti, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Smart Trading Transportation Industry and Trade Limited Company. Esentepe Mah, 1 Harman St., Duran Business Center, Building 4, Door 8, Sisli, Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Suzhou Keda Technology Co., Ltd., a.k.a, the following alias:—Kedacom. Mahmut Sevket Pasa Mah, Odesa Bulvari, Okmeydani No. 34, 34000 Sisli/Istanbul, Turkey. (See alternate addresses under China, Netherlands, Pakistan, Singapore, and South Korea). | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Svista Turizm Ve Havacilik Dis, a.k.a., the following alias: —Svista Turizm Ve Havacilik Dis Tic Ltd Sti Antalya Sb. Yenigol Mah. Serik Cad. Antalya Havalimani Sit. No: 100 Muratpasa, Antalya, Turkey; and No: 42 Albatros Sokak, Bahcesehir 1 Kisim Mahallesi, Basaksehir Istanbul, 34488, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
TDT Havacilik Bakim Ve Ticaret, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —TD Team; and —TDT Havacilik Bakim Ve Ticaret Anonim Şirketi. 39/1 Nolu Sokak No:35, İç Kapı No:1, Altınova Sinan Mah. Antalya, Kepez 07170, Turkey; and Rauf Denktaş Cad. 2209 Sok., No:24/101, Güzeloba Mah. Antalya, Muratpaşa 07230, Turkey; and Antalya Airport—Apron, Antalya, Antalya 07025, Turkey; and Dalaman Airport Apron, Dalaman, Muğla 48770, Turkey; and Bodrum Milas Airport Apron, Milas, Muğla 48200, Turkey; and Istanbul Airport Apron, IGA, Istanbul 34283, Turkey; and Alanya Gazipasa Airport Apron, Gazipasa , Antalya 07900, Turkey; and Izmir Adnan Menderes Airport Apron, İzmir, 35410, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
TGB Aviation, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Tugberk Havacilik. Sarphan Finans Park, Finans Cad C Blok No. 5, K1 Ofis No. 29, Umraniye Kadikoy, Istanbul, Turkey; and Zeytinlik Mh Yakut Sk No. 58/3, Bakirkoy 34140, Istanbul, Turkey; and A1 Blok D17, Fikirtepe, Elit Concept Reuzgar Sok No. 44, Kadikoy, Istanbul, Turkey; and Yenisehir Mah Osmanli Bulvari No. 5/B, D79, Kurtkoy, Pendik, Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
Transeurope Bilişim Diş Ticaret Limited Şirketi, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Trans Europe Bilisim Dis Ticaret Ltd Sti. Kişla Mah. 37 Sk. Cengizhan Apt. No: 6 İç Kapi No. 102, Muratpasa/Antalya, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Turkik Union Dijital Teknoloji Donusum Ofisi, a.k.a., the following alias: —Turkic Union Digital Technology Transformation Office. Block Number 1, Ataturk Cad., Yesilkoy Mah. Bakirkoy, Istanbul, 34149, Turkey; and No: 12 No: 8, Ataturk Cad. Egs Business Park, Bakirkoy, Istanbul, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Ultimate Havacilik Hizmetleri Limited Sirketi, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Ultimate Aviation Services. No:4/9, Konyaaltı Caddesi, Türker Apartmanı, Deniz Mahallesi, Muratpaşa, Antalya, Turkey; and Evliya Celebi Caddesi Remel Plaza, Etiler Mahallesi, Muratpasa, Antalya, 07010, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
UMS Ankara Kalibrasyon Mühendislik Müşavirlik Mümessillik Sanayi Ve Ticaret Limited Şirketi a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Ums Istanbul Kalibrasyon Muhendislik Musavirlik Mumessillik Sanayi Ve.; —UMS Kalite Elektriksel Kalibrasyon Deney Egitim Danısmanlık Muhendislik San. ve Tic. Ltd. Sti.; and —UMS Medikal Test Kalibrasyon Sanayi Ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi. 5 Ornek Sanayi Sitesi 1267/1. Sokak, Ostim, Yenimahalle Ankara, 06374 Turkiye; and No: 51/3A-7A, Dumlupinar Mahallesi Cemal Gursel Caddesi, Pendik Istanbul (Anatolia), 34890 Turkiye; and 1/1, 1151. Sk., Gul 86 Sitesi, Altınteri Bulvarı Ostim, Ankara, 06374 Türkiye; and No: 1, 1151 Sok., Gul 86 Yap Kooperatifi, Alınteri Bulvarı Ostim, Yeninmahalle, Ankara, 06374, Türkiye. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
Union Trade Turkey Makina Ithalat Ve Ihracat Limited Sirketi, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —Union Trade Turkey Mak.Ith.Ve Ihr. Ltd; —Union Trade Turkey Machinery Import and Export Limited Company; and —Union Trade Turkey Machinery Import and Export Ltd. Block No: 203, Abide-i Hurriyet Street, Aykac Plaza, Inside Door No: 17, Central Mah, Sisli/Istanbul, 34381, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Vangurd Tec Makina Sanyi Ithalat, Yesilkent MH. 2011 SK. Innovia 3 Etap 18/15 Esenyurt, Istanbul, Turkey. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 86 FR 71559, 12/17/21.
Yant Insaat Gida Turizm Sanayi Dis Ticaret Limited Sirketi, Ertuğrul Gazi Sok. No: 2E, Metropol İstanbul Sitesi A Blok, İç Kapi No: 607, Atatürk Mah., Atasehir, Istanbul, Turkey; and A1 Blok Floor 47 607 Ataturk Atasehir Blvd, Istanbul, 34758, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
Yildiz Cip Teknoloji Elektronik Elektrik Bilg. Malz. Tic. San. Ltd. Sti, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Yildiz Chip; and —Yildiz Chip Technology Electronic Electric Computer Materials Trade Industry Limited. Blok No:118 İç Kapi No:401, Şehit Binbaşi Cengiz Toytunç Cad. Antelsan İş Merkezi Antelsan İş Merkezi, Kişla Mah. Muratpaşa, Antalya, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Yunus Luqman Yasin Shgragi, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Yunus Sehreci. Savcili Mahalesi Turkmenler Caddesi No: 2, Sahinbey, Gaziantep, Turkey; and Sanayi Mahalesi 60214 Nolu Caddesi No 11, SehitKamil, Gaziantep, Turkey. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 57454, 8/23/16.
UGANDA | UCB Arcade, a.k.a., the following alias:—Allied Trading Co. P.O. Box 5999, Kampala, Uganda. (See alternate address under Allied Trading Co. in Pakistan). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
UKRAINE | Chernomorneftegaz, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Chornomornaftogaz, and—NJSC Chornomornaftogaz. Kirova/per. Sovnarkomovskaya, 52/1, Simferopol, Crimea, 95000, Ukraine. (See also Crimea (Occupied)). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 21396, 4/16/14.
Donetsk People's Republic, Donetsk Region, Ukraine. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 42455, 7/22/14.
Feodosiya Enterprise, a.k.a., the following four aliases:—Feodosia Oil Products Supply Co.; and—Feodosiya Enterprise on Providing Oil Products; and—Feodosiyske Company for the Oil; and—Theodosiya Oil Terminal. Feodosiya, Geologicheskaya str. 2, Crimea 98107, Ukraine; and Feodosia, Str. Geological 2, Crimea 98107, Ukraine (See alternate addresses under Crimea (Occupied)). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 42455, 7/22/14.
Joint Stock Company Design Bureau of Navigation Systems, a.k.a., the following four aliases: —Design Bureau of Navigation Systems JSC; —Aktsionernoe Obshchestvo Konstruktorskoe Byuro Navigatsionnykh Sistem; —AO Konstruktorskoe Byuro Navigatsionnykh Sistem; and —AO KB Navis. 56 Baidy Vishnevetskogo Street, Sosnovski Region, Cherkasy, Ukraine. (See alternate addresses under Russia.) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
Khors Air Company, 34, Lesi Ukrainki Boulevard, Kiev, 01133, Ukraine; and 10, Mekhanizatoriv Street, Kiev, 03035, Ukraine. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
Luhansk People's Republic, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Lugansk People's Republic—People's Republic of Luhansk Luhansk Region, Ukraine. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 42455, 7/22/14.
Natalya Totskaya, 34, Lesi Ukrainki Boulevard, Kiev, 01133, Ukraine; and 10, Mekhanizatoriv Street, Kiev, 03035, Ukraine. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
Private Joint-Stock Company Mako Holding, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Mako Holding. Bohdan Khmelnytsky Avenue, Building 102, Voroshilovsky District, Donetsk, Donetsk Oblast 83015, Ukraine. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15.
Roman Unytskyi, 34, Lesi Ukrainki Boulevard, Kiev, 01133, Ukraine; and 10, Mekhanizatoriv Street, Kiev, 03035, Ukraine. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
Sergei (Sergi) Ivanovich Tomchani, a.k.a., Sergey Ivanovich Tomchani, 34, Lesi Ukrainki Boulevard, Kiev, 01133, Ukraine; and 10, Mekhanizatoriv Street, Kiev, 03035, Ukraine. (See alternate addresses under Greece and United Kingdom) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
Ukraine Mediterranean Airlines, a.k.a., UM Airlines, UM Air, 7, Shulyavskaya Str., Kiev, Ukraine. (See alternate addresses under Iran and Syria) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES | A.H. Shamnad, P.O. Box 42340, Dubai, U.A.E.; and No. 3-4 Sharafia Ahmed Ali Building, Al Nakheel, Deira, Dubai 396, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Abdulla K. Al Suleimani, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Shehab Ahmed; and—Hamad Abdulla. Jebel Ali Free Zone, P.O. Box 61002, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Abdullah Poor Nagar, P.O. Box 64705, Number 20, Al Ras Street, The Gold Sough, Diera, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19.
aBensa FZ LLC, a.k.a. the following one alias:—BiotaGroup Company Al Thuraya Tower 1, 9th Floor, Office 907, P.O. Box: 500097, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Al Thuraya Tower 1, Media City, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 18811, 3/28/13.
AdCom Systems, a.k.a. the following two aliases:—Sky Global Communications; and—Sky Global Communication Systems. Industrial City of Abu Dhabi—ICAD1, Mussafah, Abu Dhabi, UAE; and #2 Mezzanine Level, Block 19, Sharq 40 Al Morour Street, Abu Dhabi Island, Abu Dhabi, UAE. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.83 FR 48534, 9/26/18.
Advanced Aerospace Industries, Industrial City of Abu Dhabi, Abu Dhabi, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 3580, 1/26/18.
Advanced Targeting Systems Company, LLC (ATS), P.O. Box 34237, High Specialized Economical Zone M41, 103A13, Al Mussafah, Abu Dhabi, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
Aerostar Asset Management FZC, a.k.a., the following two aliases: Star Aviation Group; and Star Aviation Services FZC. Sharjah Airport International Free Zone (Saif Zone), Sharjah, United Arab Emirates; and P.O. Box 9300, A2-59, Saif Zone, Sharjah, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Afsari General Trading LLC, Mezzanine Fl, No. M-7, Al Bakhit Centre, Abu-Bakr Rd, Deira, Dubai, U.A.E.; and No. 405, Albakhit Centre, Abu-Bakr, AE-Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 40150, Al Bakhit Centre, Messanine Floor, M-7, Deira, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 18811, 3/28/13.
Ahmad Asad Faour, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Ahmad Assad Fa'ur. Industrial Area 11, 28th St, Wave Tech Bldg, Sharjah, U.A.E.; and Business Bay, Emirates National Tower, Churchill Bldg, Office 209, Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 25187, Sharjah, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 32445, 6/5/14.
Ahmed Abdellatif, T5-055, SAIF Zone, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates; and SAIF office, T5-055, Sharjah, 513756, United Arab Emirates; and SAIF Executive Office, P-8-03-01, Sharjah, 12702PA 121702, United Arab Emirates; and Shariah, SAIF Office P8-03-01, P.O. Box 513756, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
Ajab Noor, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Ajab Nur. Box No. 28715, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Dubai Tower, Al Maktoum Rd, Al Rigga, Dubai, Near Baniyas Square Metro Station, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 8527, 2/18/15.
Ajab Trading Co. LLC, Box No. 28715, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Dubai Tower, Al Maktoum Rd, Al Rigga, Dubai, Near Baniyas Square Metro Station, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 8527, 2/18/15.
Ajmal Aviation, P.O. Box 40445, Building C1, Ajman Free Zone, Ajman, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
al Ajwa al Tiqniah Telecommunications Wire and Wireless Devices, P.O. Box 3421, Sharjah, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 32445, 6/5/14.
Al-Faris, RAK Free Zone, P.O. Box 10559, Ras Al Khaimah, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Al Maskah Used Car and Spare Parts, Maliha Road, Industrial Area 6, Sharjah, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 25055, 4/27/12.
Al Merikh General Trading, Suite #203, Bani Yas Tower Dubai, UAE; and P.O. Box 3559, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
Al Noor Alaili Trading Company, a.k.a., the following one alias:—ANATCO. Floor No. 37, Office No. 3706, Latifa Tower, Community Trade Center First, Sheikh Zayed Road, P.O. Box: 40118, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and Office number 3706, Floor number 37, Latifa Tower, Community Trade Center First, Sheikh Zayed Road, Dubai, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and PO Box 40118, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and 40118, Deira, Nakheel Road, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Al Ras Gate General Trading, P.O. Box 64705, Number 20, Al Ras Street, The Gold Sough, Diera, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19.
al Tawasul al Arabi Net Systems, al Tawasul Building, Industrial Area 11, Sharjah, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 25187, Sharjah, U.A.E. (See alternate address under Lebanon). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 32445, 6/5/14.
Aletra General Trading (a.k.a., Erman & Sultan Trading Co.), Sabkha Street, Shop No. 8, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 37633, 6/28/11.
Alex Ardalan, Al Thuraya Tower 1, 9th Floor, Office 907, P.O. Box: 500097, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 18811, 3/28/13.
Alex Nouri Zadeh, a.k.a. the following three aliases:—Alex Banai;—Alex Norry; and—Nouri Zadeh, No. 102 and 106, 1st Floor, K5 Entrance, Alshami Rest. Bldg., Al Muraqqabat Rd., Deira, Dubai, 184609 U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 184607, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
Ali Akbar Yahya, 505 Siraj Building 17B Street, Mankhool, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Ali Al-Dhaheri, Building No. H03, 6 Abu Dhabi Heights Street, Abu Dhabi, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Ali Reza Divanizadeh, Al Ras Center Building, Behind Al Ras Hotel, Shop No. B-05, P.O. Box 5680, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Amir Mohammad Zahedi, RAK Free Zone, P.O. Box 10559, Ras Al Khaimah, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Ammar Almounajed, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Ammar al-Mounjad. Warehouse No. 1017, Old Agent Bldg., Dubai Air Cargo Village, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 3580, 1/26/18.
Aristeidis A. Pappas, Villa D71, Al Hamra Village, Ras Al Khaimah, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 56003, 9/18/14.
Astec Astronomy FZCO, Dubai Silicon Oasis, DDP, Building A2 IFZY Business Park DDP, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Atlinx Electronics, Flat 401-Bin Yas Center Al Maktum Road, P.O. Box 42340, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Shops 3-4, Sharafia Ahmed Ali Building, al-Nakheel, Deira, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Avia Trust, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Avia Trust FZE. Warehouse G-22 PO Box 54541, Dubai Airport Free Zone Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Ayman Elgindy, T5-055, SAIF Zone, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates; and SAIF office, T5-055, Sharjah, 513756, United Arab Emirates; and SAIF Executive Office P-8-03-01, Sharjah, 12702PA 121702, United Arab Emirates; and Shariah, SAIF Office P8-03-01 P.O. Box 513756, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
Basha Asmath Shaikh Office M-2, Al Andalus Bldg, Next to Shoemart Bldg, Abu Hail, Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 29687, Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 191252, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 21236, 5/14/19.
Behover General Trading/Information Technologies, a.k.a., the following one alias:—DBA Behover Information Technologies. P.O. Box 25756, Atrium Center Building, Burdubai, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Unit M3&4, Atrium Centre, Bank Street Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 19741, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Unit 2009, Prism Tower, Business Bay, Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 115904, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
Bestway Line FZCO, TPOFCB-06WS10, Jebal Ali Free Zone, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19.
Beverly Apigo, P.O. Box 28515, Dubai, U.A.E.; and 202 B Sama Tower Sheikh Tayed Road #3 Dubai, U.A.E. P.O. Box 16048; and BC2-414, RAK Free Trade Zone, P.O. Box 16048, Ras Al Khaimah, U.A.E.; and G1/RAK Free Trade Zone RAK—U.A.E.; and G-17 Sheikh Tayed Road #3, Ras Al Khaimah Free Trade Zone, Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 10559 Ras Al Khaimah, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 25344 Bur Dubai, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Suite 608 Atrium Center, Bank St., Bur Dubai, Dubai, U.A.E., P.O. Box 16048; and Suite 706 Atrium Center Bank Street, Bur Dubai, Dubai U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
Blue Lines FZE, RAK Free Zone, P.O. Box 10559, Ras Al Khaimah, United Arab Emirates. (see alternate address under Turkey). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Complete Freight Solutions, 704 The Atrium Ctr, Khalid Bin, Dubai, U.A.E; and 1st Floor, Office No. 114, Yousef Al Otaiba Bldg, Above Emirates Islamic Bank Office, 2nd December Street (Old Al Dyafah Street), P.O. Box No. 29687, Satwa, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
Crescent International Trade and Services FZE, Office No. B34BS33O111, Jebel Ali, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 44683, 8/1/14.
Crynofist Aviation, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Crynofist Aviation Fzco; and —Crynofist Design and Engineering Solutions Pvt Ltd. 9WB 159-SO-26, First Floor, 9WB, Dubai Airport Freezone, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. (See alternate address under India). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Cybernet MEA, 202 B Sama Tower Sheikh Tayed Road #3, Dubai, U.A.E., P.O. Box 16048; and BC2-414, RAK Free Trade Zone, P.O. Box 16048 Ras Al Khaimah, U.A.E.; and G1/RAK Free Trade Zone RAK—U.A.E.; and G-17 Sheikh Tayed Road #3, Ras Al Khaimah Free Trade Zone, Dubai, U.A.E.; and No. 608 Atrium Center Bank Street, Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 10559 Ras Al Khaimah, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 116911 Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 25344 Bur Dubai, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Suite 608 Atrium Center Bank Street, Bur Dubai, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Suite 706 Atrium Center Bank Street, Bur Dubai, Dubai U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
Danoush Trading Company, No. 104, Beside Kheibar Hotel, Morshed Market St., Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
David Khayam, Apt #1811 Manchester Tower, Dubai Marina, Dubai, U.A.E.; and PO Box 111831, Al Daghaya, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Dubai Shopping Center, Office 13, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 18811, 3/28/13.
Delta Engineering Concern FZE, a.k.a. the following one alias:—DEC. SAIF Office, Q l -06-0 92/A, Sharjah, U.A.E. | All Items Subject to the EAR | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 86 FR 29193, 6/1/21.
Divanizadeh General Trading Company, Al Ras Center Building, Behind Al Ras Hotel, Shop No. B-05, P.O. Box 5680, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Donna Lynn Ocampo, P.O. Box 28515, Dubai, U.A.E.; and 202 B Sama Tower Sheikh Tayed Road #3 Dubai, U.A.E., P.O. Box 16048; and BC2-414, RAK Free Trade Zone P.O. Box 16048 Ras Al Khaimah, U.A.E.; and G1/RAK Free Trade Zone RAK—U.A.E.; and G-17 Sheikh Tayed Road #3 Ras Al Khaimah Free Trade Zone Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 10559 Ras Al Khaimah, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 25344 Bur Dubai, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Suite 608 Atrium Center, Bank St., Bur Dubai, Dubai, U.A.E. P.O. Box 16048; and Suite 706 Atrium Center Bank Street Bur Dubai, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
Dr. Artush Parsi, No. 75 Noor Mohammed Taleb Building, Opposite to Ascot Hotel, Khaleed-bin-Valid Rd, Bur Dubai, Dubai, U.A.E.; and No. 7 Noor Mohammad Taleb Bldg. Opp. Ascot Hotel Khalid Bin Rd, Dubai, U.A.E.; and No. 705, Noor Mohammad Taleb Bldg, Bin Valid Road, Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 122114, Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. 111837, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 18811, 3/28/13.
E and I Systems FZE, Business Centre, Al Shmookh Building, UAQ Free Trade Zone, Umm Al Quwain, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Emirates Alloys, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Emirates Alloys General Trading LLC; and—Emirates Aero No. 101 Marwan Ahmed Ali Building, Port Saeed Road, P.O. Box 183799, Dubai, U.A.E.; and No. 104b Sh Maryam Palace, Deira, Dubai U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
Emirates Hermes General Trading, a.k.a. the following two aliases:—Emirates Hermes General Trading LLC; and—Emirates Hermes General Trading Co., Inc. Office M-2, Al Andalus Bldg, Next to Shoemart Bldg, Abu Hail, Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 29687, Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 191252, Dubai, U.A.E.; and 73 Al Mina Rd., Dubai, U.A.E.; and Emirates Islamic Bank Building Al Diyafa, Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box: 29687, Office No: M-02, Al Andalus Building, Shoe-Mart Building, Next To Abu Hail Shopping Centre, Abu Hail , Dubai, U.A.E.; and 2nd of December Street 3, Office 314, Yousuf Al Otaiba Building near Al Maya Supermarket, Trade Center, 191252, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 21236, 5/14/19.
Emitech Middle East FZC, P.O. Box 513364, SAIF Zone, Sharjah, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 3580, 1/26/18.
Enerquip Ltd. (UAE), Office 214, Block B1, Ajman Free Zone, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.2(d), and 744.3(d) of this part | 87 FR 75174, 12/8/22.
Euromoto Middle East FZE, Q-4 136 Warehouse, Sharjah Airport International Free (SAIF) Zone, Sharjah, UAE; and Q1-08-051/B, Sharjah Airport International Free (SAIF) Zone, Sharjah, UAE; and P.O. Box 121826, Sharjah Airport International Free (SAIF) Zone, Sharjah, UAE. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 82 FR 24245, 5/26/17.
Fajr Almadeena Electronics, No. 102 and 106, 1st Floor, K5 Entrance, Alshami Rest. Bldg., Al Muraqqabat Rd., Deira, Dubai, 184609 U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 184607, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
Farrokh Nia Yaghmaei, a.k.a, Farokh Nia Yaghmaei, Flat 401—Bin Yas Center—Al Maktum Road, P.O. Box 42340, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Shops 3-4, Sharafia Ahmed Ali Building, al-Nakheel, Deira, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54510, 9/22/08. 76 FR 21631, 4/18/11.
Feroz Khan, a.k.a., the following three aliases:—Haaje Khan;—Haaji Khan; and—Firoz. Maliha Road, Industrial Area 6, Sharjah, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 25055, 4/27/12.
Focus Middle East, No. 504, Bldg. 5EA, Dubai Airport Free Zone, P.O. Box 293541, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
Foremost International FZE, P.O. Box 123833, Q4-163, SAIF Zone, Sharjah, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 3580, 1/26/18.
Frontier Services Group Limited, FLC & FRONTIER SERVICES GROUPL MENA DMCC, Office 2005-2008, Platinum Tower, Cluster I, Jumeirah Lakes Tower, P.O. Box 336826, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. (See alternate addresses under People's Republic of China, Kenya, and Laos.) | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Future Trends International, FZE LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Future Trends. B-1101-15 Grand Tower Ajman, U.A.E. | All Items Subject to the EAR | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 86 FR 29193, 6/1/21.
FWS Trading FZE, Rainbow No. 1212, Ajman Free Zone, Ajman, U.A.E.; and City Tower 2, Office #2004, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 8829, 2/23/16.
German Sky International Trading Company LLC, a.k.a., the one alias:—Civil Trading FZE Office No. 901, Riqqa Al Buteen Plaza, Al Maktoum Street, Dubai, UAE; and Al Maktoum Road, 9th Floor, Riqqa Al Buteen Plaza Bldg, Dubai, UAE; and P.O. Box 16111 Ras Al Khaimah, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 21236, 5/14/19.
Ghasem Afsari, No. 405, Albakhit Centre, Abu-Bakr, AE-Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 40150, Al Bakhit Centre, Messanine Floor, M-7, Deira, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Mezzanine Fl, No. M-7, Al Bakhit Centre, Abu-Bakr Rd, Deira, Dubai, U.A.E.; and No. 75 Noor Mohammed Taleb Building, Opposite to Ascot Hotel, Khaleed-bin-Valid Rd, Bur Dubai, Dubai, U.A.E.; and No. 7 Noor Mohammad Taleb Bldg. Opp. Ascot Hotel Khalid Bin Rd, Dubai, U.A.E.; and No. 705, Noor Mohammad Taleb Bldg, Bin Valid Road, Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 122114, Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. 111837, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 18811, 3/28/13.
Glasgow International Trading, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Glasgow International General Trading LLC. P.O. Box 6462, Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 42064, Dubai U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Global Merchant General Trading LLC, P.O. Box 39960, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.
Good Luck Shipping LLC, a.k.a., as the following two aliases:—Good Luck Shipping Services; and—GLS Office 206/207 Malik Saeed, Ahmad Ghabbash, Bur Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 8486, Dubai, UAE; PO Box 5562, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 44824, 9/4/18.
Gulf Eagle Contracting (GEC), P.O. Box 31814, Al Dhafra Road, New Airport Road, Abu Dhabi, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
Gulf Eagle Industrial and Metal Profiles (GEIMP), P.O. Box 31814, Al Mussafah Industrial City, Abu Dhabi, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
Gulf Gate Sea Cargo LLC, No. 508, Bldg P-114, Almaktoum Road, Deirah, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and P.O. Box 39948, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.
Gulf Gate Shipping Co. LLC, No. 508, Bldg P-114, Almaktoum Road, Deirah, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and P.O. Box 39948, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.
Gulf Trade House FZC, P.O. Box Number 121463, Sharjah, UAE; and Office 75C, Q1-07, Block Q1 Street, Sharjah, UAE. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
H. Ghasir, Flat 401-Bin Yas Center—Al Maktum Road, P.O. Box 42340, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Shops 3-4, Sharafia Ahmed Ali Building, al-Nakheel, Deira, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Hamed Al Fahid Trading Company, Shop No. 3-4, Ahmed Ali Bldg., Al Jalel, Deira, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Hamed Athari, No. 3-4 Sharafia Ahmed Ali Building, Al Nakheel, Deira, Dubai 396, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Hamed Kianynejad, Rainbow No. 1212, Ajman Free Zone, Ajman, U.A.E.; City Tower 2, Office #2004, Dubai, U.A.E.; and City Tower 2, 20th Floor, Office #2005, Sheikh Zayed Road, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 8829, 2/23/16.
Hamid Rashed, Apt #1811 Manchester Tower, Dubai Marina, Dubai, U.A.E.; and PO Box 111831, Al Daghaya, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Dubai Shopping Center, Office 13, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 18811, 3/28/13.
Hamideh Ghayour, P.O. Box 155904, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Unit M3&4, Atrium Centre, Bank Street Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
HAS General Trading LLC, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —HAS Aviation; —HAS GT; and —HAS Aviation GT. Tamani Art Tower Suite 1937, Burj Khalifa District, P.O. Box 183744, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Business Bay, Burj Khalifa District, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Huawei OpenLab Dubai, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Huawei Dubai OpenLab. Dubai, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Hulm al Sahra Elect Devices TR, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Hulm Al Sahra. P.O. Box 62105, Al Dhaid, New Industrial Area Sharjah, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates; and Building 38, Industrial Area No.1, Al Dhaid City, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates; and Al Khan 2 Street 1, Al Dhaid City, Sharjah, 235545, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Husayn Fa'ur, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Hussein Faour. Beirut Hadath, Morjan Bldg near Sfeir Bridge, Lebanon; and Industrial Area 11, 28th St, Wave Tech Bldg, Sharjah, U.A.E. (See alternate address under Lebanon). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 32445, 6/5/14.
I JET GLOBAL DMCC, a.k.a. the following five aliases: —iJet; —iJet Aviation Services; —iJET Flight Support Services; —Trade Med Middle East; and —Trade Mid Middle East. Unit No: 3504, 1 Lake Plaza, Plot No: JLT-PH2-T2A, Jumeirah Lakes Towers, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. (See alternate addresses under Malta, Spain, and Syria). | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Ibrahim Nasir, P.O. Box 32332, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. (See additional address in Canada). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Infotec, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Info Tech, and—I. Tec Trading FZE, P.O. Box 10559, Ras Al Khaimah, U.A.E.; and Ras Al Khaimah Free Trade Zone (RAKFTZ), U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 78146, 12/16/11.77 FR 71098, 11/29/12.
Innovative Technology Systems (ITS), 2nd Floor, #202 Sheik Zayed Road Dubai, POB 25344, U.A.E.; and Suite 608 Atrium Center, Bank Street, Bur Dubai, Dubai, U.A.E; and Suite 706 Atrium Center Bank Street, Bur Dubai, Dubai U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
Jamal Hasan, a.k.a. the following alias:—Jamal Haji, No. 102 and 106, 1st Floor, K5 Entrance, Alshami Rest. Bldg., Al Muraqqabat Rd., Deira, Dubai, 184609 U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 184607, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
Kadin Satco FZE, No. 28 Street 6, Phase Springs 10, Emirates Hills, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Khalaj Trading LLC, 2604 Tower A, Bin Ham Towers, Altaawun St., Sharjah, U.A.E.; and #4 Street # 6-A, Karama Area, Bur Dubai, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 25505, 4/11/24.
Khaled Al Taher, TPOFCB-06WS10, Jebal Ali Free Zone, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19.
Khosrow Kasraei, P.O. Box 61342, Jebel Ali, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 44683, 8/1/14.
Liberty House Trading LLC, a.k.a. the following two aliases: -Baet Alhoreya Electronics Trading; and -Baet Alhoreya, Apt #1811 Manchester Tower, Dubai Marina, Dubai, U.A.E.; and PO Box 111831, Al Daghaya, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Dubai Shopping Center, Office 13, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 18811, 3/28/13.
Lucky Star General Trading LLC, Airport Cargo Village, Agents Building 2013, Dubai, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and P.O. Box 62647, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and Office 23, King of Sheikh Manea bin Khalifa Bin Saeed Al Maktoum, Ras Al Khor Industrial Area 1, P.O. Box 120300, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and Office No 310, Rashid Almajid Bin Quraiban Building, Parcel 118-813, Naif, Deira, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Lufti Busaidi Sulaiman, a.k.a., the following one alias:— Lufti Al Busaidi. Jebel Ali Free Zone, P.O. Box 61002, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Mahdi Khalaj Amirhosseini, 2604 Tower A, Bin Ham Towers, Altaawun St., Sharjah, U.A.E.; and #4 Street # 6-A, Karama Area, Bur Dubai, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 25505, 4/11/24.
Majidco Micro Electronics, Flat 401-Bin Yas Center—Al Maktum Road, P.O. Box 42340, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Shops 3-4, Sharafia Ahmed Ali Building, al-Nakheel, Deira, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Managed Systems and Services (MSAS)(FZC), No. A3089 Seif Sharjah U.A.E.; and SAIF Zone 250 M2 Warehouse P60-109, P.O. Box 122550, Sharjah, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
Manohar Nair, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Manoharan Nair. Office M-2, Al Andalus Bldg, Next to Shoemart Bldg, Abu Hail, Dubai, U.A.E., and P.O. Box 29687, Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 191252, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 21236, 5/14/19.
Marakish Express Cargo LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias: —MEC International. Warehouse #1205, Old Agents Building, Dubai Cargo Village, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and P.O. Box 293004, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and Shop No 2048, Department of Civil Aviation Building, Cargo Village, Deira, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Mayrow General Trading, Flat 401-Bin Yas Center—Al Maktum Road, P.O. Box 42340, Dubai, U.A.E.; Shops 3-4, Sharafia Ahmed Ali Building, al-Nakheel, Deira, Dubai, U.A.E.; P.O. Box 42340, Deira, Dubayy, U.A.E. and P.O. Box 171978, Deira, Dubayy, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Mayrow Technics Co., No. 3-4 Sharafia Ahmed Ali Building, Al Nakheel, Deira, Dubai 396, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Mega Fast Cargo LLC, #405, Floor 4, Nasseriya Building, 1st Industrial Area, Al Qusais, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and Riqaa Al Buteen Plaza Building, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and Al Maktoum Rd., Dubai, United Arab Emirates and P.O Box: 238930, Bin Al Fahed Building, No. 3 Room 203, 2nd Floor, Industrial Area 1, Alqusais, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 55035, 7/3/24.
Mega Technique General Trading, P.O. Box 60049, Al Qusais, Nasseriya Building, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 55035, 7/3/24.
Mehdi Jafariyeh, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Mehdi Jeffery. P.O. Box 28515, Dubai, U.A.E.; and 202 B Sama Tower Sheikh Tayed Road #3 Dubai, U.A.E., P.O. Box 16048; and BC2-414, RAK Free Trade Zone P.O. Box 16048 Ras Al Khaimah, U.A.E.; and G 1/RAK Free Trade Zone RAK—U.A.E.; and G-17 Sheikh Tayed Road #3 Ras Al Khaimah Free Trade Zone, Dubai, U.A.E. and P.O. Box 10559 Ras Al Khaimah, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 25344 Bur Dubai, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Suite 608 Atrium Center, Bank St., Bur Dubai, Dubai, U.A.E., P.O. Box 16048; and Suite 706 Atrium Center Bank Street Bur Dubai, Dubai U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
Mehdi Rafie, Shop No. 3 & 4, Sharafia Ahmed Ali Bldg., Al Nakheel St., Deira, P.O. Box 171978, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Mehran Kamalinia, a.k.a. Ronald Simon, Shop No. 3 & 4, Sharafia Ahmed Ali Bldg., Al Nakheel St., Deira, P.O. Box 171978, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Mehrdad Moeinansari, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Mehrdad Ansari. No 7101, Index Tower DIFC, Dubai, U.A.E.; and No 508, Sheikha Maryam Bldg., Deirah, Dubai, U.A.E. 39948. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 40178, 6/21/16.
Micatic General Trading, Flat 401-Bin Yas Center—Al Maktum Road, P.O. Box 42340, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Shops 3-4, Sharafia Ahmed Ali Building, al-Nakheel, Deira, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Micro Middle East Electronics, Flat 401-Bin Yas Center—Al Maktum Road, P.O. Box 42340, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Shops 3-4, Sharafia Ahmed Ali Building, al-Nakheel, Deira, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Moh Khoman, No. 405, Albakhit Centre, Abu-Bakr, AE-Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 40150, Al Bakhit Centre, Messanine Floor, M-7, Deira, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Mezzanine Fl, No. M-7, Al Bakhit Centre, Abu-Bakr Rd, Deira, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 18811, 3/28/13.
Mohamad Javad, No. 405, Albakhit Centre, Abu-Bakr, AE-Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 40150, Al Bakhit Centre, Messanine Floor, M-7, Deira, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Mezzanine Fl, No. M-7, Al Bakhit Centre, Abu-Bakr Rd, Deira, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 18811, 3/28/13.
Mohamed Nashir, Jebel Ali Free Zone, P.O. Box 61002, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Mohammad Nayeb, No. 102 and 106, 1st Floor, K5 Entrance, Alshami Rest. Bldg., Al Muraqqabat Rd., Deira, Dubai, 184609 U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 184607, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
Mohammed Marzoghi, TPOFCB-06WS10, Jebal Ali Free Zone, Dubai, U.A.E.; and C21 Gate No 4, Ajman, U.A.E. (see also address under Bahrain) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19.
Mohsen Saghafi, Shop No. 3 & 4, Sharafia Ahmed Ali Bldg., Al Nakheel St., Deira, P.O. Box 171978, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Mojtaba Alikhani, Rainbow No. 1212, Ajman Free Zone, Ajman, U.A.E.; and City Tower 2, Office #2004, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 8829, 2/23/16.
Mostafa Salehi, No. 308, 3rd Floor, Rafi Center, Al Nakheel, Deira, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Mujahid Ali, a.k.a. the following one alias:—Mujahid Ali Mahmood Ali Office No. B34BS33O111, Jebel Ali, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 44683, 8/1/14.
NAR Technologies General Trading LLC, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —NAR Technologies; and —Nartechnologies. 1903 Reef Tower Jumeirah Lake Tower, P.O. Box 122016, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Building R239-1, Plot Number 58-0, Warehouse No. 57, Al Goze Industrial Third, Al Quoz 3, Dubai, U.A.E.; and 404-Royal Plaza, Rigga Street Deira Dunai, P.O. Box No: 181258 Dubai, U.A.E.; and Plot 597/751, Building 2, Dubai Investments Park, P.O. Box 122016 Dubai, U.A.E. (See alternate address in Pakistan). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.2(d), and 744.3(d) of this part | 87 FR 75174, 12/8/22.
Narinco, Flat 401-Bin Yas Center—Al Maktum Road, P.O. Box 42340, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Shops 3-4, Sharafia Ahmed Ali Building, al-Nakheel, Deira, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Neda Overseas Electronics L.L.C., No. 308, 3rd Floor, Rafi Center, Al Nakheel, Deira, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
New Era Enterprises FZE, Business Center RAKEZ, Ras al Khaimah, UAE. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 88 FR 66273, 9/27/23.
Next Gulf Trading LLC, No. 75 Noor Mohammed Taleb Building, Opposite to Ascot Hotel, Khaleed-bin-Valid Rd, Bur Dubai, Dubai, U.A.E.; and No. 7 Noor Mohammad Taleb Bldg. Opp. Ascot Hotel Khalid Bin Rd, Dubai, U.A.E.; and No. 705, Noor Mohammad Taleb Bldg, Bin Valid Road, Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 122114, Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. 111837, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 18811, 3/28/13.
Odyssey General Trading FZC, Sharjah Airport International Free Zone (SAIF), Executive Building, Office No P8-07-04 Sharjah, U.A.E.; and PO Box No. 121214, Sharjah, U.A.E. | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 87 FR 8182, 2/14/22.
Patco Group Ltd, P.O. Box 20470, Ajman, U.A.E.; and Ajman Free Zone Bldg., 48-Block-C Meena Road near Ajman Sea Port, Ajman, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
Payload Cargo LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Payload Cargo LCC. Suite 212 E-Block Freight Gate 5, Dnata Building, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and Suite 302, E Block, FG 5, Dubai Airport Free Zone, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and P.O. Box 29300, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and Suite 2026, Dubai Cargo Village, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 14388, 2/27/24.
Pearltrainer FZE, P.O. Box 32707, Sharjah, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 3580, 1/26/18.
Pegasus General Trading FZC, a.k.a., the following six aliases:—Pegasus General Trading FZE;—Pegasus General Trading Company;—Pegasus General Trading LLC;—Pegasus General;—Pegasus Trading; and—Pegasus. Office No. 09, Building No. Q-1, Near Nilona/Gate No. 3, Al Dhaid Street, Sharjah Airport International Airport Free Zone, Sharjah U.A.E.; and Building Q1-09, Sharjah International Airport Free Zone, Sharjah, U.A.E.; and #R2-15, P.O. Box 121640, SAIF Zone, Sharjah, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
Perfect Tyre Trading Co LLC, Al Ain—Al Sanaiya—Inh. Mohammed Sultan Aldarmaki—Bld, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Post Box No. 67221, Abu Dhabi, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 8527, 2/18/15.
Presto Freight International, LLC, aka Presto Freight International LLC (PFI), Office M-2, Al Andalus Bldg, Next to Shoemart Bldg, Abu Hail, Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 29687, Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 191252, Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box No. 115360, Mezzanine Floor, Office No. M-02, Al Andalus Building, Above Shoe-Mart shop (Next to Abu Hail Center), Abu Hail, Dubai U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 21236, 5/14/19.
Pyramid Technologies, P.O. Box 42340, Dubai, U.A.E.; and No. 3-4, Sharafia Ahmed Ali Building, Al Nakheel, Deira, Dubai 396, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 54503, 9/22/08.
Rainbow General Trading Company,City Tower 2, 20th Floor, Office #2005, Sheikh Zayed Road, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 8829, 2/23/16.
Raneen Wireless Development Systems Company (RWDS, LLC), Abu Dhabi -Mussaffah-ICAD I-(l 01Al3, 104Al 3, 105A13, 100A13, 103A13, 102A13) 40 Abu Dhabi, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Reza Ghoreishi, P.O. Box 61342, Jebel Ali, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 56003, 9/18/14.
Reza Hajigholamali, P.O. Box 20470, Ajman, U.A.E.; and Ajman Free Zone Bldg., 48-Block-C Meena Road near Ajman Sea Port, Ajman, U.A.E. (See alternate address under Iran). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
Rigsol Well Drilling Equipment Trading, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Rigsol. Saleh Al Kazim, Deira, Garhoud, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and Office No. 3, Al Kazim Building, Garhoud, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Roche Consulting Limited, Suite 1702, Level 17 Boulevard Plaza Tower 1, Sheikh Mohammed Bing Rashid Boulevard, Downtown Dubai, UAE; and Suite 904-09, Boulevard Plaza 1, Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Boulevard, Downtown Burg Khalifa, Dubai; and P.O. Box 23596 24553-01, A2, IFZA Business Park, DSO, Dubai. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
RosAero FZC, a.k.a. the following two aliases: —AGT SP Trading FZE; and —AGT Trading. R2, Sharjah Airport Free Zone Street, Office 806, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates; and PO Box 120683, Saif-Zone, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates; and . SM-Office E1-1414D, Ajman Free Zone, Ajman, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 85097, 12/7/23.
Rose Ann Apigo, P.O. Box 28515, Dubai, U.A.E.; and 202 B Sama Tower Sheikh Tayed Road #3 Dubai, U.A.E., P.O. Box 16048; and BC2-414, RAK Free Trade Zone P.O. Box 16048 Ras Al Khaimah, U.A.E.; and G1/RAK Free Trade Zone RAK—U.A.E.; and G-17 Sheikh Tayed Road #3 Ras Al Khaimah Free Trade Zone, Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 10559 Ras Al Khaimah, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 25344 Bur Dubai, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Suite 608 Atrium Center, Bank St., Bur Dubai, Dubai, U.A.E., P.O. Box 16048; and Suite 706 Atrium Center Bank Street, Bur Dubai, Dubai U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
Royal Impact Trading L.L.C., P.O. Box 113225, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and Office 211, Arif & Bintoak Tower, Al Karama, Dubai, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and Bur Dubai Al Quoz 3, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 48195, 10/9/25.
S&D Industry Ltd., Souk Al Kabeer Building, Office No. F01, Bur Dubai Area, P.O. Box 932, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and Office No. 1, Galadari Engineering Works Building, Deira, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and 1304 Al Baker Tower 4, Al Tawun, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Saeed Talebi, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Allen Talebi. No. 28 Street 6, Phase Springs 10, Emirates Hills, Dubai, U.A.E., (See alternate addresses under Canada and Iran). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Saeed Valadbaigi, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Saeed Valad; and—Saeed Baigi. No. 101 Marwan Ahmed Ali Building, Port Saeed Road, P.O. Box 183799, Dubai, U.A.E.; and No. 104b Sh Maryam Palace, Deira, Dubai U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
SANCO Middle East, FZC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—SANCO ME FZC. P.O. Box 8447, Sharjah Airport Free Zone (SAIF Zone), Sharjah, U.A.E.; and Warehouse #X1-51, Al Dhaid Road (Airport Road), Sharjah Airport International Free Zone, Sharjah, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
SANCO Middle East, LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—SANCO ME, LLC. Twin Tower 204A, Sharjah, 208, U.A.E.; and Office #202, 2nd Floor, Block A, Twin Tower, Al Entifadha Street, Al Majaz 2, Sharjah, U.A.E.; and Flat No. 204, Floor No. 2, Jamal Abdul Nasser Street, Al Majaz, Sharjah, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 83982, Sharjah, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
Sawa Air Aviation FZCO, a.k.a., the following two aliases: Sawa Aviation; and Sawa Air. P.O. Box 42707, Al Sahel Bldg, Fish Round About, Deira, Dubai, U.A.E. 254 | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Sci Box Scientific and Laboratory Equipment Trading, LLC, P.O. Box 183312, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Scott Technologies FZE, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Scot Technologies. P.O. Box 121723, SAIF Zone, Sharjah, UAE; and #R5-06C, Sharjah Airport Free Zone (SAIF), Sharjah, UAE; and Flat No. 201, Block 8, Muwaileh Sharjah, UAE; and Dimas Building, Block 8, 201 Muwaileh Sharjah, UAE; and B Block 301-302, Al Hudaiba Awards Building, Dubai Investment Park, Dubai, UAE. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22.
Seyed Mahdi Mousavi, P.O. Box 49465, Dubai, UAE; and P.O. Box 7941, Dubai, U.A.E. (See alternate addresses under Iran). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
Seyed Mousavi Trading, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Hitech Computer Peripherals; and—Hitech Corporation. P.O. Box 49465, Dubai, UAE; and P.O. Box 7941, Dubai, U.A.E. (See alternate addresses under Iran). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 58006, 9/19/12.
Shaji Muhammed Basheer, a.k.a. the following alias:—S. Basheer. Shop No. 3 & 4, Sharafia Ahmed Ali Bldg., Al Nakheel St., Deira, P.O. Box 171978, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 24590, 4/25/12.
Shehab Bin Braik Al Breiki, Jebel Ali Free Zone, P.O. Box 61002, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Sky Float Aviation FZE, M6 Office 1309, Building R2, Near Urban Line Group, SAIF Zone, P.O. Box 121887, Sharjah, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 83420, 12/22/20.
Sky Gulf Consultancy and Researches LLC, P.O. Box 25298, Abu Dhabi, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 3580, 1/26/18.
Sky Gulf Electronic Devices Industries, Industrial City of Abu Dhabi (ICAD) Zone 1 plots 104A 13 and 105A13 Abu Dhabi, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 52901, 8/27/20.
Skylinks FZC, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Skylinks; and—Skylinks Satellite Comm. P.O. Box 28515, Dubai, U.A.E.; and 202 B Sama Tower Sheikh Tayed Road #3 Dubai, U.A.E., P.O. Box 16048; and BC2-414, RAK Free Trade Zone P.O. Box 16048 Ras Al Khaimah, U.A.E.; and G1/RAK Free Trade Zone RAK—U.A.E.; and G-17 Sheikh Tayed Road #3 Ras Al Khaimah Free Trade Zone, Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 10559 Ras Al Khaimah, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 25344 Bur Dubai, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Suite 608 Atrium Center, Bank St., Bur Dubai, Dubai, U.A.E., P.O. Box 16048; and Suite 706 Atrium Center Bank Street, Bur Dubai, Dubai U.A.E. 3 (See alternate address under China). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.85 FR 83769, 12/23/20.
Smart Mail Services, a.k.a., the following one alias: —Smart Mail Service LLC. Sheikh Zayed Road, Unit 111, 1st Floor, Blue Building Tower, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and Salahuddin Road, Al Khabaisi Area, Deira, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and Al Maktoum Rd, Office 304, 3rd Floor, MM Tower, Deira, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. (See alternate address under Iran.) | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 44499, 9/16/25.
Source Com, Sharjah Airport, SAIF Zone P6 Area 191, Sharjah, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 120291, Sharjah, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 32445, 6/5/14.
Stealth Telecom FZC, P.O. Box 7755, Sharjah, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 3580, 1/26/18.
Steel Design FZE, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —TRME; and —Turbo Resources. T5-055, SAIF Zone, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates; and SAIF office, T5-055, Sharjah, 513756, United Arab Emirates; and SAIF Executive Office, P-8-03-01, Sharjah, 12702PA 121702, United Arab Emirates; and Shariah, SAIF Office P8-03-01, P.O. Box 513756, United Arab Emirates; and SAIF Office P8-03-01, P.O. 513756, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 84462, 10/23/24.
Success Aviation Services FZC, a.k.a. the following three aliases: —Success Aviation; —Success Aviation FZC; and —Success Aviation Services. 608, The Apricot Tower, Dubai Silicon Oasis, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and Building L1, Sharjah International Airport, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Super Alloys, No. 101 Marwan Ahmed Ali Building, Port Saeed Road, P.O. Box 183799, Dubai, U.A.E.; and No. 104b Sh Maryam Palace, Deira, Dubai U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
Syed Amir Ahmed Najfi, Sabkha Street, Shop No. 8, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 37633, 6/28/11.
Taha Mansur, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Taha Mansour. P.O. Box 389, Dubai, U.A.E.; and Al Quoz Warehouse, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 32445, 6/5/14.
Techcare Services FZ LLC, No. 1, Ground Floor Office 8/D, P.O. Box 312391, Al-Jazeera Al Hamra, UAE | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 44824, 9/4/18.
Tehran Pishro Trading Co., New Tara Hotel, Al Musall Road, Al Musall, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. (See alternate addresses under China and Iran.) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 68548, 8/27/24.
TEM International FZC, a.k.a., the following alias:—TEM. Floor 4, Block B, Entrance No. 2 Business Village, Deira A1 Maktoum Rd, Dubai P.O. Box 183125, U.A.E. | All Items Subject to the EAR | See § 744.2(d) of the EAR | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
Teofila Logistics, Office 228, Al Aatar Shopping Mall, P.O. Box 115824, Karama, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
TFASA Group FZCO, Suite 1702, Level 17, Boulevard Plaza Tower 1, Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Boulevard, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
TFASA Group Training, Suite 1702, Level 17, Boulevard Plaza Tower 1, Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Boulevard, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
TFASA Helicopter International Limited, P.O. Box 23596, 24553-001, A2 IFZA Business Park, DSO, Dubai. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
TFASA Services FZCO, Dubai Silicon Oasis, DDP Building A2, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
TFASA Training Limited, Suite 904-09, Boulevard Plaza Tower 1, Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Boulevard, Downtown Burj Khalifa; and Suite 1702, Level 17, Boulevard Plaza Tower 1, Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Boulevard, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
TG Training 2023 FZO, a.k.a. the following one alias: —TGT23. Dubai Silicon Oasis, DDP, Building A2, Dubai; and P.O. Box 23596, 24553-001, A2, IFZA Business Park, DSO, Dubai. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
TGO General Trading LLC, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Three Green Orbit. 19th Floor Festival Tower, Festival City, P.O. Box 36605, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
Thrust Aviation FZE, 17c-F3 PO Box 5406 Fujairah Free Zone, Fujairah U.A.E.; and PO Box 5232 Fujairah Free Zone, Fujairah U.A.E.; and Q4-168 PO 8318 Sharjah Free Zone, Sharjah, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 78 FR 75463, 12/12/13.
Transworld Aviation, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Transworld Aviation FZE. Jebel Ali Free Zone, P.O. Box 61002, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
TROJANS, a.k.a., the following three aliases: —TROJANS Solutions; —TROJANS Pakistan Ltd; and —M/S TROJANS. 1903 Reef Tower, Jumeirah Lakes Tower Dubai, U.A.E. (See alternate address in Pakistan). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.2(d), and 744.3(d) of this part | 87 FR 75174, 12/8/22.
T.V. Joe Ouseppachan, Office 228, Al Aatar Shopping Mall, P.O. Box 115824, Karama, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 81 FR 14958, 3/21/16.
UEC (Pvt.) Ltd.,P.O. Box 97, Abu Dhabi, U.A.E. (See alternate addresses under Pakistan and Saudi Arabia) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 44824, 9/4/18.
Waseem Jawad, Ras Al Khaimah Free Trade Zone (RAKFTZ), U.A.E.; and P.O. Box: 25123, Dubai U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 78148, 12/16/11.
Wave Tech Computers, Industrial Area 11, 28th St, Wave Tech Bldg, Sharjah, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 3421, Sharjah, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 32445, 6/5/14.
Wave Tech Group, Business Bay, Emirates National Tower, Churchill Bldg, Office 209, Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box 30686, Dubai, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 32445, 6/5/14.
Wellmar Technology FZE, Office B1-307F, Ajman Free Zone, Ajman, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20.
Zain Enterprises FZE, Business Center, A1 Shmookh Building, P.O. Box 3-28612, Sharjah, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | See §§ 744.2(d), and 744.3(d) of this part | 87 FR 75174, 12/8/22.
Zurmat General Trading, Office No. 205, Platinum Business Center, Baghdad Street, Al-Nahda 2, Al-Qusais, Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box No. 171452, Dubai, U.A.E.; and 1st Street, Industrial Area 4th, Sharjah, U.A.E. (Behind the Toyota Showroom), and P.O. Box 35470, Sharjah, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 25055, 4/27/12.
Zurmat General Trading, Office No. 205, Platinum Business Center, Baghdad Street, Al-Nahda 2, Al-Qusais, Dubai, U.A.E.; and P.O. Box No. 171452, Dubai, U.A.E.; and 1st Street, Industrial Area 4th, Sharajah, U.A.E. (Behind the Toyota Showroom), and P.O. Box 35470, Sharajah, U.A.E. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 25057, 4/27/12.
UNITED KINGDOM | A.P. Finance Limited, 38, Princes Court—88 Brompton Road, Knightsbridge, London, SW3 1ES, United Kingdom; and Enterprise House, 113/115 George Lane, London, E18 1AB, United Kingdom. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
Anatolii Pysarenko, 38, Princes Court—88 Brompton Road Knightsbridge, London, SW3 1ES, United Kingdom; and Enterprise House,113/115 George Lane, London, E18 1AB, United Kingdom. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
Aviation Network Associates, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Aviana. 24 Chiswell Street, 3rd Floor, London, United Kingdom EC1Y 4YX. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Brian Douglas Woodford (See alternate address under Singapore) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 74001, 12/5/08.
Centre for Integrated Photonics Ltd., B55 Adastral Park, Pheonix House, Martlesham Heath, Ipswich, IP5 3RE United Kingdom. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Chas Newport, 24 Chiswell Street, 3rd Floor, London, United Kingdom EC1Y 4YX. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
China Academy of Electronics and Information Technology, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—CAEIT; and—CETC CAEIT. 3rd Floor, 9 St. Clare Street, London, United Kingdom. (See alternative address under China.) | All items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Case-by-case review for ECCNs 1A004.c, 1A004.d, 1A995, 1A999.a, 1D003, 2A983, 2D983, and 2E983, and for EAR99 items described in the Note to ECCN 1A995; case-by-case review for items necessary to detect, identify and treat infectious disease; and presumption of denial for all other items subject to the EAR | 86 FR 36499, 7/12/21.
China Shengshi International Trade Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Hong Kong Development Group. P.O. Box 957, Offshore Incorporations Center, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands. (See alternate address under China). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR. See § 746.8(b) | 88 FR 70353, 10/11/23. 89 FR 87265, 11/1/24.
Cloudminds Inc., C/O Maples Corporate Services Limited Ugland House, South Church Street, George Town, Grand Cayman KY1-1104, Cayman Islands. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 34497, 6/5/20.
Connec Electronic, 36 Gerrard Street, London, England, United Kingdom; and 38 John Ashby Close, London, England, United Kingdom. (See alternate addresses under China). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of Denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22. 87 FR 57082, 9/16/22.
Daniel Basden, Aviation 3 Trebeck Street, Mayfair, London, United Kingdom W1J7 LS. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Dart Aviation, a.k.a., the following six aliases: —Dart Aviation Technics; —Dart Aviation Marlbrine S.A.R.L.; —MBP Trading Ltd.; —Almo Aero; —Almo Aero (Dart Aviation Technics) (IEAS); and —SARL IEAS. Unit 7 Minton Distribution Park, London Road, Amesbury SP4 7RT Wiltshire, London, United Kingdom; and Martlet House E1, Yeoman Gate Yeoman Way Worthing West Sussex BN13 3QZ. (See alternate addresses under France, Iran and Senegal). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 61541, 11/13/19. 85 FR 14796, 3/16/20. 90 FR 14035, 3/28/25.
Djeco Group LP, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Djeco Group Holding LTD. 38 Thistle Street, Edinburgh, EH2 1EN, Scotland, United Kingdom. (See alternate address under Malta). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
Evans Meridians Ltd., Drake Chambers, 1st Floor Yamraj Building, PO Box 3321, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 83 FR 44824, 9/4/18.
Farshid Gillardian, a.k.a., Isaac Gill, Isaac Gillardian, London, United Kingdom. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 74001, 12/5/08.
Fentex Properties LTD., Tortola, British Virgin Islands. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 80646, 12/28/15.
Flamar Shipping Ltd, P.O. Box 3321, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Graham Avery, Aviation 3 Trebeck Street, Mayfair, London, United Kingdom W1J7 LS. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Huawei Global Finance (UK) Limited, Great Britain. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Technologies R&D UK, a.k.a., the following two aliases:—Huawei Research & Development (UK) Ltd; and—Huawei Technologies Research & Development (UK)). Former Spicers Site Sawston Bypass Sawston Cambridge Cambridgeshire CB22 3JG, England; and 302 Cambridge Science Park, Milton Road, Cambridge, CB4 0WG, England; and Phoenix House (B55) Adastral Park, Martlesham Heath, Ipswich, Suffolk. IP5 3RE. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Technologies (UK) Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Huawei Software Technologies Co. Ltd. 300 South Oak Way, Green Park, Reading, RG2 6UF; and 6 Mitre Passage, SE 10 0ER, United Kingdom. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 43495, 8/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
IKCO Finance 6 Lothbury, London, England, EC2R 7HH. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 24590, 4/25/12.
International Aerospace Asia, a.k.a. the following two aliases: —IAA; and —IntAero. 10 Cheyne Walk, Northhampton, NN1 5PT, United Kingdom. (See alternate addresses under Malaysia, Singapore, and Thailand.) | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Kaspersky Labs Limited, a.k.a., the following two aliases: —Kaspersky Labs; and —Kaspersky Labs Ltd. 2 Kingdom Street, Paddington Basin, London, England, W2 6BD, United Kingdom. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 52363, 6/24/24.
Latebrook Trading Ltd, Drake Chambers, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Livingston Aerospace Ltd., Dock Cottage, Bullo Pill, Gloucestershire, GL14 1ED, United Kingdom and 23 Cleveland Road, Lytham, Lytham St Annes, Lancashire, FY8 5JH, United Kingdom. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 89 FR 55035, 7/3/24.
LTS Holding Limited (f.k.a. IPP-International Petroleum Products Ltd.), Tortola, British Virgin Islands. (See alternate address under Switzerland). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 80646, 12/28/15.
Majory LLP, 25 City Road Spaces, City Road, Epworth House, Office 320, London, United Kingdom EC1Y 1AA. (See alternate address under Spain) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
MCES, London, United Kingdom. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 73 FR 74001, 12/5/08.
Myra Gkizi, 38, Princes Court—88 Brompton Road, Knightsbridge, London, SW3 1ES, United Kingdom. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
Nelford United Corp, P.O. Box 3321, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Nicolas Kaiga, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Nicholas Kaiga Flat #6, Philibeach Gardens, Kensington Chelsea, London, United Kingdom. (See alternate addresses under Belgium and Netherlands) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 40241, 8/14/19.
Niki Panteli Kyriakou, 38, Princes Court—88 Brompton Road, Knightsbridge, London, SW3 1ES, United Kingdom. (See alternate address under Cyprus) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
Oystercredit Ltd Ogb, OMC Chambers, Wickhams Cay 1, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Photon Pro LLP, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Photon Pro. 25 City Road Spaces, City Road, Epworth House, Office 320, London, United Kingdom ECIY 1AA. (See alternate address under Russia). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Policy of denial | 87 FR 13143, 3/9/22.
PremiAir Aerospace, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Aviation International. Aviation 3 Trebeck Street, Mayfair, London, United Kingdom W1J7 LS; and Station Cottage, The Street, Nacton, Ipswich, Suffolk, United Kingdom, IP10 0HR. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 59421, 9/22/20.
Profin Estates, Inc., Palm Chambers 5, Suite 120, The Lake Building, Wickhams Cay 1, P.O. Box 3175, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Proven Glory, British Virgin Islands. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Proven Honour, British Virgin Islands. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Qihoo 360 Technology Co. Ltd., P.O. Box 309 George Town; and C/O Maples Corporate Services Limited Ugland House, South Church Street, George Town, Grand Cayman KY1-1104, Cayman Islands. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 85 FR 34497, 6/5/20.
Sergei (Sergi) Ivanovich Tomchani, a.k.a., Sergey Ivanovich Tomchani, 38, Princes Court—88 Brompton Road, Knightsbridge, London, SW3 1ES, United Kingdom; and Enterprise House 113/115 George Lane, London, E18 1AB, United Kingdom. (See alternate addresses under Greece and Ukraine) | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 76 FR 50410, 8/15/11.
Southport Management Services Limited, De Castro Street 24, Akara Building, Wickhams Cay 1, Road Town, Tortola, Virgin Islands, British. (See also address under Cyprus). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 80 FR 52968, 9/2/15.
TFASA Group Limited, a.k.a. the following one alias: —TFASA Group ICC Limited 2nd Fl, O'Neal Marketing Associates Bldg, Road Town, British Virgin Islands; and P.O. Box 3174, Road Town, British Virgin Islands. | For all items subject to the EAR (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 38741, 6/14/23.
Unimont S.A., Drake Chambers, P.O. Box 3321, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
Veteran Avia LLC a.k.a., the following alias:—Veteran Airline. 1 Beckett Place, South Hamptonshire, London, U.K. (See also addresses under Armenia, Greece, and Pakistan). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 79 FR 56003, 9/18/14. 81 FR 8829, 2/23/16. 82 FR 2887, 1/10/17.
Voltero Alliance LLP, 45-51 Newhall Street 330, Birmingham, West Midlands, B3 3RB, United Kingdom. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 77 FR 61256, 10/9/12.
UZBEKISTAN | Alfa Beta Creative LLC, 16A Navoi Street, Shaykhantakhur District, Tashkent, 100011, Uzbekistan. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
GFK Logistic Asia LLC, 16A Navoi Street, Shaykhantakhur District, Tashkent, 100011, Uzbekistan. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 23334, 4/17/23.
Mvizion LLC, 8 Katartal Street, 7th Block, Chilanzarskiy District, Tashkent, 100113, Uzbekistan; and 313 Gaydar Alieev Kuchasi, Tashkent, Uzbekistan. | For all items subject to the EAR (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 88 FR 76129, 11/6/23.
Promcomplektlogistic Private Company, a.k.a., the following one alias:—Private Enterprise Promcomplektlogistic. 16 A Navoi St, Shaykhantakhur Region, Tashkent, Uzbekistan. | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of Denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22. 87 FR 57082, 9/16/22.
VENEZUELA | Novax Group S.A., Caracas, Venezuela. (See alternate addresses under Costa Rica, Ecuador, Panama, and Russia). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 80957, 11/21/23.
Zero Waste Global S.A., Between Avenida Beethoven and Avenida Principal de Bello Monte, Edificio El Cigarral PH-A, Caracas, CP 1050, Venezuela. (See alternate address under Panama). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See § 744.11 of the EAR) | Presumption of denial | 88 FR 80957, 11/21/23.
VIETNAM | Huawei Technologies (Vietnam) Company Limited, Hanoi, Vietnam. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
Huawei Technology Co. Ltd., Hanoi, Vietnam. | For all items subject to the EAR, see §§ 734.9(e) 1 and 744.11 of the EAR 2 | Presumption of denial | 84 FR 22963, 5/21/19. 85 FR 29853, 5/19/20. 85 FR 36720, 6/18/20. 85 FR 51603, 8/20/20. 87 FR 6026, 2/3/22. 87 FR 55250, 9/9/22.
KingPai Technology Int'l Co., Limited, 143-6th Street, 1 Town, Linh Xuan Ward, Thu Duc District, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. (See alternate addresses under China and Russia). | For all items subject to the EAR. (See §§ 734.9(g),3 746.8(a)(3), and 744.21(b) of the EAR) | Policy of Denial for all items subject to the EAR apart from food and medicine designated as EAR99, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See §§ 746.8(b) and 744.21(e) | 87 FR 38925, 6/30/22. 87 FR 57082, 9/16/22.
1 For this entity, “items subject to the EAR” includes foreign-produced items that are subject to the EAR under § 734.9(e)(1) of the EAR. See § 744.11(a)(2)(i) for related license requirements and license review policy for these items.
2 Cybersecurity research and vulnerability disclosure. The following exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) to Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. (Huawei) and its non-U.S. affiliates on the Entity List for cybersecurity research and vulnerability disclosure subject to other provisions of the EAR are excluded from the Entity List license requirements: when the disclosure to Huawei and/or to its listed non-U.S. affiliates is limited to information regarding security vulnerabilities in items owned, possessed, or controlled by Huawei or any of its non-U.S. affiliates when related to the process of providing ongoing security research critical to maintaining the integrity and reliability of existing and currently 'fully operational network' and equipment. A 'fully operational network' refers to a 'third party' network providing services to the 'third party's' customers. The term 'third party' refers to a party that is not Huawei, one of its listed non-U.S. affiliates, or the exporter, reexporter, or transferor, but rather an organization such as a telecommunications service provider.
3 For this entity, “items subject to the EAR” includes foreign-produced items that are subject to the EAR under § 734.9(g) of the EAR. See §§ 744.11, 744.21, and 746.8 of the EAR for related license requirements, license review policy, and restrictions on license exceptions.
4 For this entity, “items subject to the EAR” includes foreign-produced items that are subject to the EAR under § 734.9(e)(2) of the EAR. See § 744.11(a)(2)(iv) for related license requirements and license review policy.
5 For this entity, “items subject to the EAR” includes foreign-produced items that are subject to the EAR under § 734.9(e)(3) of the EAR. See § 744.11(a)(2)(v) for related license requirements and license application review policy.
[63 FR 64325, Nov. 19, 1998]

Editorial Notes:

1. For Federal Register citations affecting supplement no. 4 to part 744, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.govinfo.gov.
2. At 89 FR 96836, Dec. 5, 2024, supplement no. 4 to part 744 was amended under CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF by adding an entry for “S2C Limited” and by revising the entry for “Shanghai Micro Electronics Equipment (Group) Co., Ltd.”; however, these amendments could not be incorporated because no text was supplied for these entries.

Effective Date Note:

At 90 FR 50857, Nov. 12, 2025, in supplement no. 4 to part 744, the introductory text was stayed, effective until Nov. 9, 2026.

Supplement No. 5 to Part 744—Procedures for End-User Review Committee Entity List and 'Military End User' (MEU) List Decisions

The End-User Review Committee (ERC), composed of representatives of the Departments of Commerce, State, Defense, Energy and, where appropriate, the Treasury, will make all decisions to make additions to, removals from or changes to the Entity List and the 'Military End User' (MEU) List. The ERC will be chaired by the Department of Commerce and will make all decisions to add an entry to the Entity List and MEU List by majority vote and all decisions to remove or modify an entry by unanimous vote.
When determining to add an entry or modify an existing entry, to the Entity List or MEU List, the ERC will also specify the section or sections of the EAR that provide the basis for that determination. All additions and modifications to the MEU List are done pursuant to § 744.21(b). The license requirements, the license application review policy, or the availability of license exceptions for entities or address entries on the MEU List are specified in § 744.21 under paragraphs (b) to (e). In addition, for the Entity List, if the section or sections that form the basis for an addition or modification do not specify the license requirements, the license application review policy, or the availability of license exceptions, the ERC will specify the license requirements, the license application review policy and which license exceptions (if any) will be available for shipments to that entry.
Any agency that participates in the ERC may make a proposal for an addition to, modification of, or removal of an entry from the Entity List or MEU List by submitting that proposal to the chairperson.
The ERC will vote on each proposal no later than 30 days after the chairperson first circulates it to all member agencies unless the ERC unanimously agrees to postpone the vote. If a member agency is not satisfied with the outcome of the vote of the ERC that agency may escalate the matter to the Advisory Committee on Export Policy (ACEP). A member agency that is not satisfied with the decision of the ACEP may escalate the matter to the Export Administration Review Board (EARB). An agency that is not satisfied with the decision of the EARB may escalate the matter to the President.
The composition of the ACEP and EARB as well as the procedures and time frames shall be the same as those specified in Executive Order 12981 as amended by Executive Orders 13020, 13026 and 13117 for license applications. If at any stage, a decision by majority vote is not obtained by the prescribed deadline the matter shall be raised to the next level.
A final decision by the ERC (or the ACEP or EARB or the President, as may be applicable in a particular case) to make an addition to, modification of, or removal of an entry from the Entity List or MEU List shall operate as clearance by all member agencies to publish the addition, modification or removal as an amendment to the Entity List or MEU List even if, in the case of a decision by the ERC to add an entry or any decision by the ACEP or EARB, such decision is not unanimous. Such amendments will not be further reviewed through the regular Export Administration Regulations interagency review process.
A proposal by the ERC to make any change to the EAR other than an addition to, modification of, or removal of an entry from the Entity List or MEU List shall operate as a recommendation and shall not be treated as interagency clearance of an EAR amendment. The chairperson of the ERC will be responsible for circulating to all member agencies proposals submitted to him or her by any member agency. The chairperson will be responsible for serving as secretary to the ACEP and EARB for all review of ERC matters. The chairperson will communicate all final decisions that require Entity List or MEU List amendments, to the Bureau of Industry and Security which shall be responsible for drafting the necessary changes to the Entity List and MEU List. If the ERC decides in a particular case that a party should be informed individually instead of by EAR amendment the chairperson will be responsible for preparing the “is informed” letter for the signature of the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration.
A listed entity may present a request to remove or modify its Entity List or the MEU List entry along with supporting information to the chairman at Room 3886, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20230. The chairperson shall refer all such requests and supporting information to all member agencies. The member agencies will review and vote on all such requests. The time frames, procedures and right of escalation by a member agency that is dissatisfied with the results that apply to proposals made by a member agency shall apply to these requests. The decision of the ERC (or the ACEP or EARB or the President, as may be applicable in a particular case) shall be the final agency decision on the request and shall not be appealable under part 756 of the EAR. The chairperson will prepare the response to the party who made the request. The response will state the decision on the request and the fact that the response is the final agency decision on the request. The response will be signed by the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration.
The End-User Review Committee will conduct regular reviews of the Entity List and MEU List for the purpose of determining whether any listed entities should be removed or modified. The review will include analysis of whether the criteria for listing the entity are still applicable and research to determine whether the name(s) and address(es) of each entity are accurate and complete and whether any affiliates of each listed entity should be added or removed.
[85 FR 83798, Dec. 23, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 51662, June 18, 2024; 89 FR 71803, Sept. 4, 2024]

Supplement No. 6 to Part 744—Unverified List

Exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) involving parties to the transaction who are listed in this supplement are subject to the restrictions and requirements outlined in § 744.15 of the EAR.
Country | Listed person and address | Federal Register citation
ARMENIA | Atlas Sanatgaran, Komitas 26/114, Yerevan, Armenia | 85 FR 64017, October 9, 2020.
Iranian & Armenian, Komitas 26/114, Yerevan, Armenia | 85 FR 64017, October 9, 2020.
Piricas Trading Company, No. 20 Heratsi 2A, Yerevan, Armenia | 85 FR 64017, October 9, 2020.
AZERBAIJAN | Caspian Oil Montaj, Office 39, Block B, 30 Kaverochkin Street, Baku, Azerbaijan | 82 FR 16732, April 6, 2017.
BULGARIA | Vera Yordanova, Zemen Street, No. 2B Floor 2, Apt. 21, Sofia, Bulgaria | 88 FR 17708, March 24, 2023.
CANADA | Laval Electronics, 3073 Rue Edmond-Rostand, Laval, QC H7P, Canada | 83 FR 22844, May 17, 2018.
Rizma, Inc., 1403-8 McKee Avenue, Toronto, Ontario M2N 7E5, Canada | 80 FR 60532, October 7, 2015.
Services GP Tek, a.k.a. Nouvelle Option, 1305 Rue Pise, Brossard, QC J4W 2P7, Canada; and 203-760 Rue Galt, Montreal, QC H4G 2P7, Canada; and 6271 Rue Beaulieu, Montreal, QC, H4E 3E9, Canada | 83 FR 22844, May 17, 2018.
CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF | Able Supply Chain Limited, Rm 511, 5/F, Corporation Park, 1 On Lai Street, Sha Tin, New Territories, Hong Kong; and Rm 605, 6/F, Corporation Park, 1 On Lai Street, Sha Tin, New Territories, Hong Kong; and Unit C, 9/F, Winning House, No. 72-76 Wing Lok Street, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong | 84 FR 14610, April 11, 2019.
AECC South Industry Co., Ltd., Dongjiaduan, Lusong District, Zhuzhou, Hunan Province, China | 87 FR 7039, February 8, 2022.
Airpart Consolidated Trading, Flat 01, 25/F, Ka Wing House, Block F, Ka Ting Court Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong | 88 FR 17708, March 24, 2023.
Arctic Star Co., Ltd., Unit 1507, 15/F, Eastcore, 398 Kwun Tong Rd., Kwun Tong, Hong Kong | 90 FR 17340, April 25, 2025.
ARI International, Ltd., Room 1208, Block B, Jiangsu Building, No. 6013 Yitian Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, China | 82 FR 16732, April 6, 2017.
Avant Science Co., Ltd., 24/F Che Wah Industrial Building No 1-7 Kin Hong St., Kwai Chung, New Territories, Hong Kong | 89 FR 55038, July 3, 2024.
AW Industrial Ltd., Room A, 3/F Hung Fook Industrial Building, No 60 Hung To Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and D1 6/F Kras Asia Industrial Building, No 79 Hung To Road, Kwung Tong, Hong Kong | 85 FR 83789, December 23, 2020.
Beijing Jin Sheng Bo Yue Technology Co., Ltd., Haidian District, Zhi Chun Road, No. 118, Building A, Third Floor, Beijing, 30110, China | 88 FR 87898, December 20, 2023.
Beijing Shengbo Xietong Technology Co., Ltd., Building 8, Courtyard 6, Haiying Rd, Science City, Fengtai District, Beijing, 100160, China | 88 FR 87898, December 20, 2023.
Boqur International Ltd., Room 1203, 12/F, International Trade Centre, 11-19 Sha Tsui Road, Tsuen Wan, New Territories, Hong Kong; and Room 19C, Lockhart Centre, 301-307 Lockhart Road, Wan Chai, Hong Kong | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
Boson Technology Co., Limited., Unit 22, 10/F, Nan Fung Commercial Centre, 19 Lam Lok Street, Kowloon, Kwun Tong, Hong Kong; and Room 1907, 19/F, Lee Garden One, 33 Hysan Avenue, Causeway Bay, Hong Kong; and Room 1501 (462), 15/F., SPA Centre, 53-55 Lockhart Road, Wan Chai, Hong Kong | 84 FR 14610, April 11, 2019.
Brilliance Technology Ltd, a.k.a., Brilliance Technology Group, Flat A, 11/F, Adolfo Mansion, 114-116 Austin Road, Tsim Sha Tsui, Yau Tsim Mong, Hong Kong; and Rm. 1203, 12/F, Hip Kwan Commercial Bldg., 38 Pitt Street, Yau Ma Tei, Yau Tsim Mong, Hong Kong | 79 FR 34220, June 16, 2014; 82 FR 16732, April 6, 2017.
Carry Goldstar Ltd., 15A, 15/F, Cheuk Nang Plaza, 250 Hennessy Road, Wan Chai, Hong Kong | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
Central Right Investments Ltd., Room 1019, 10/F, 1 Hung To Road, Kwun Tong, Hong Kong | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
Chang Zhou Jin Tan Teng Yuan Machinery Parts Co., Ltd., 116 Huafeng road, Jintan Economic Development Zone, Changzhou China | 87 FR 61975, October 13, 2022.
Changhe Aircraft Industries Group, No. 539, Chaoyang Road, Jingdezhen City, Jiangxi Province, China | 83 FR 22844, May 17, 2018.
China National Plant Import/Export Co., Room 2135, Jingxin Building A, No Dong San Huan North Road, Beijing, China | 79 FR 34220, June 16, 2014.
Chongqing Optel Telecom, No 1 6f Building 7, No 106 West Jinkai Avenue, Yubei District, Chongqing 401121, China | 87 FR 61975, October 13, 2022.
CST Source Industrial Co., Ltd., Rooms 5-15, 13/F, South Tower, World Finance Centre, Harbour City, 17 Canton Road, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
Dandong Nondestructive Electronics, No 2 Tonghe Street Jinshan Industrial Park, Yuanbao District Dandong, Dandong 118000, China | 87 FR 61975, October 13, 2022.
Daystar Electric (HK) Ltd., Flat D, 19/F, Waylee Industrial Centre, 30-38 Tsuen King Circuit, Tsuen Wan, New Territories, Hong Kong; and 9/F Kam Chung Commercial Building, 19-21 Hennessy Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong | 80 FR 4781, January 29, 2015.
Dongguan Huiqun Electronic Co., Ltd., 30 Daling Street, Jiaoyitang, Tangxia Town, Dongguan City, Guangdong Province 523723, China | 87 FR 7039, February 8, 2022.
E-Chips Technology, Unit 4, 7/F, Bright Way Tower, No. 33 Mong Kok Road, Mong Kok, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Flat 1205, 12/F, Tai Sang Bank Building, 130-132 Des Voeux Road Hong Kong | 80 FR 4779, January 29, 2015; 80 FR 60532, October 7, 2015.
ECOM International (HK) Co., Ltd. Flat/Rm 7022 BLK D 7/F Tak Wing Industrial Building 3, Tsun wen Road Tuen Mun, New Territories, Hong Kong; and Flat/Rm S, 4/F, Kwun, Tong Industrial Centre Phase 2, 460-470, Kwun Tong Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and No. 12, 19/F, Ho King Commercial Centre, No. 2-16 Fay Yuen Street, Mongkok, Kowloon, Hong Kong | 88 FR 17708, March 24, 2023.
Emax Technology Co. Ltd. HK, Room 19C, Lockhart Centre, 301-307 Lockhart Road, Wan Chai, Hong Kong; and Rm 2017, Lippo Centre Tower 2, 89 Queensway, Admiralty, Hong Kong | 85 FR 83789, December 23, 2020.
Fortune International Trading, Room 1701(017) 17/F Henan Bldg, No. 90 Jaffee Rd, Wanchai, Hong Kong; and Room 1907, 19/F, Lee Garden One, 33 Hysan Avenue, Causeway Bay, Hong Kong | 85 FR 83789, December 23, 2020.
Fussion Electronics Co., Ltd., 11/F, International Trade Centre, 11-19 Sha Tsui Road, Tsuen Wan, New Territories, Hong Kong | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
Globe Communication (HK) Ltd., Flat 01A2, 10/F, Carnival Commercial Building, 18 Java Road, North Point, Hong Kong; and Flat C, 9/F, Winning House, 72-74 Wing Lok Street, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
GRG Metrology & Test (Chongqing) Co., Ltd., The 3rd floor of building A no 37 Cuitao Road, Chongqing City, China | 87 FR 61975, October 13, 2022.
Guangdong Dongling Carbon Tech. Co., Ltd., #83 Shatong Road, Shabu County, Dalang Town Dongguan city, Guangdong 523770, China | 87 FR 61975, October 13, 2022.
Guangzhou Xinwei Transportation Co., Ltd., Unit 214 Building A1, 9 Konggang Avenue Jiuyi Village, Huadu Town, Huadu District, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 519997, China | 88 FR 87898, December 20, 2023.
Haofeng Industrial Co., Ltd., Room 1101, 11/F, San Toi Building, 139 Connaught Road, Central, Hong Kong | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
Harbin Xinguang Feitian, 1717 Chuangxin Yi Road, Harbin, Heilongjiang Province, China | 87 FR 7039, February 8, 2022.
Hengye Technology Co., Ltd., 1602 Zhonghang Road, Dingcheng International Building, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China | 89 FR 83430, October 16, 2024.
Henixio Aviation Co., Ltd., 108 Cheung Po, Pat Heung, New Territories, Hong Kong; and Room 218-9, 2/floor, Block B, Proficient Industrial Centre, 6 Wang Kwun Road, Kowloon Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Unit 1507E, 15/F, Eastcore, 398 Kwun Tong Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong | 90 FR 17340, April 25, 2025.
HK Hengyu Storage Logistics Limited, Rm 2309, 23/F, Ho King Commercial Centre, 2-16 Fayuen St, Mongkok, Kwun Tong, Hong Kong; and Flat/Rm B10, 9/F, Mai Hing Factory Building, 16-18 Shing Yip Street, Kowloon, Kwun Tong, Hong Kong; and Flat/Rm B11, 12/F Mai Hing Factory Building, 16-18 Shing Yip Street, Kowloon, Kwun Tong, Hong Kong | 84 FR 14610, April 11, 2019.
HK P&W Industry Co. Ltd. (HKPW), Rm. 1902, Easey Commercial Building., 253-261 Hennessey Rd., Wan Chai, Hong Kong | 88 FR 17708, March 24, 2023.
Hong Kong Engy Technology Co., a.k.a. Hong Kong Energy Technology Co., a.k.a. SZ Engy Technology Co., a.k.a. SZ Energy Technology Co., Workshop 15, 2/F, Cardinal Industrial Building, 17 On Lok Mun Street, Fanling, New Territories, Hong Kong | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
Hong Kong Haimao Info-Tec Development Co Ltd, Rm 1013B, Well Fung Ind. Center, Ta Chuen Ping Street, Kwai Chung, Hong Kong | 79 FR 34220, June 16, 2014.
Hongbo Industrial Technology, Unit 3, 9/F, Shing Yip Industrial Building, 19-21 Shing Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Unit 04, 7/F, Bright Way Tower, No. 33, Mong Kok Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong | 80 FR 4781, January 29, 2015.
Hongkong Delta Electronics Technology Co., Limited Unit 3, 6/F Kam Hon Industrial Building 8 Wang Kwun Road, Kowloon Bay, Hong Kong | 89 FR 55038, July 3, 2024.
Hongxin Technology Limited, B/5, 5/F, Block 1, Camel Paint Building 62 Hoi Yuen Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Flat/Rm 917B, Block A, 9/F, New Mandarin Plaza No. 14 Science Museum Road, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong | 89 FR 55038, July 3, 2024.
Huaduan (Anhui) Machine Tool Manufacturer Co., Chaoyang Rd #888, Dongguan Development, Si Town, Anhui Province, Suzhou, China | 84 FR 14610, April 11, 2019.
Jet-Prop International Forwarding (HK) Ltd., Rm. 607, 6/F, International Plaza No. 20 Sheung Yuet Road, Kowloon Bay Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room A-B17, 8/Floor, Hong Leong Industrial Complex, 4 Wang Kwong Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong | 88 FR 17708, March 24, 2023.
Jiangsu HNHB Equipment Co., Ltd., No. 9, Xiangtou West Road, Yixing City, Jiangsu Province, China | 82 FR 16732, April 6, 2017.
Jiangxi Hongdu Aviation Ind. Group, The Nanchang National High & New Technology Development Zone, Jiangxi Province, Yaohu Nanchang, China | 83 FR 22844, May 17, 2018.
Jin Yan Technology & Development Co., Ltd., Workshop 11, 8/F, Block A, Delya Industrial Centre, 7 Shek Pai Tau Road, Tuen Mun, New Territories, Hong Kong; and Room 1, Fook Cheung Building, 42 Ka Shin Street, Tai Kok Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
Kenwoo International Trade Company, 1907, 19/F, Lee Garden One, 33 Hysan Avenue, Causeway Bay, Hong Kong; and Room 517, New City Centre, 2 Lei Yue Mun Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Flat H, 6/F, Block 2, Golden Dragon Industrial Centre, Tai Lin Pai Road, Kwai Chung, Hong Kong | 85 FR 83789, December 23, 2020.
Kesina Services, No. 24 Jin Lian Road, Louhu District, Shenzhen, China; and Room 607, 6/F, International Plaza, No. 20 Sheung Yuet Road, Kowloon Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room A-B17, 8/Floor, Hong Leong Industrial Complex, 4 Wang Kwong Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Block A1, 2 Floor, King Nam Ind., 603-608 Castle Peak Road, Tsuen Wan, Hong Kong | 88 FR 17708, March 24, 2023.
KingV Ltd., a.k.a. Jinnway Data Ltd., Room 31, 9/F, Shing Yip Industrial Building, 19-21 Shing Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and 11/F, Front Block, Hang Lok Building, 130 Wing Lok Street, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
Lianqi (HK) Electronics Co Ltd, Unit N, 3/F, Hopewell House, 175 Hip Wo Street, KwunTong, Kowloon, Hong Kong | 79 FR 34220, June 16, 2014.
Lightstar Technology Ltd., Rooms 1318-1319, Hollywood Plaza, 610 Nathan Road, Mongkok, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Flat 8, 4/F, Festigood Centre, No. 8 Lok Yip Road, On Lok Tsuen, Fanling, New Territories, Hong Kong | 88 FR 17708, March 24, 2023.
Lihang Technology Co., Ltd., Shenhua Industrial Building Room 602, Chiwei, Binhe Avenue, Futian District Shenzhen, Guangdong, China | 89 FR 55038, July 3, 2024.
Ling Ao Electronic Technology Co. Ltd, a.k.a. Voyage Technology (HK) Co., Ltd., a.k.a. Xuan Qi Technology Co. Ltd, Room 17, 7/F, Metro Centre Phase 1, No. 32 Lam Hing St., Kowloon Bay, Kwun Tong, Hong Kong; and 15B, 15/F, Cheuk Nang Plaza, 250 Hennessy Road, Wan Chai, Hong Kong; and Flat C, 11/F, Block No. 2, Camelpaint Bldg., 62 Hoi Yuen Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room C1-D, 6/F, Wing Hing Industrial Building, 14 Hing Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Flat/Rm. A30, 9/F Silvercorp International Tower, 707-713 Nathan Road, Mongkok, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 912A, 9/F. Witty Commercial Building, 1A-1L Tung Choi Street, Mongkok, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Unit A, 7/F, King Yip Factory Bldg., 59 King Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Unit D, 16/F, One Capital Place, 18 Luard Road, Wan Chai, Hong Kong; and Unit B213, 1/F, New East Sun Industrial Bldg., 18 Shing Yip Street, Kowloon, Kwun Tong, Hong Kong | 80 FR 4779, January 29, 2015; 80 FR 60532, October 7, 2015; 82 FR 16733, April 6, 2017; 83 FR 22845, May 17, 2018; 84 FR 14610, April 11, 2019.
Lion Chip Electronics Ltd, Unit N, 3/F, Hopewell House, 175 Hip Wo Street, KwunTong, Kowloon, Hong Kong | 79 FR 34220, June 16, 2014.
Maipu Communication Technology Co Ltd, 7/F Kerry Warehouse, 36-42 Shan Mei St, Shatin, Hong Kong | 79 FR 34220, June 16, 2014.
Master-Uni Industry Co., Ltd., Room 602, 6/F, 168 Queens Road, Central, Hong Kong | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
Nano Tech International Co Ltd, Unit 5, 27/F, Richmond Commercial Building, 109 Argyle Street, Mongkok, Kowloon, Hong Kong | 79 FR 34220, June 16, 2014.
Narpel Technology Co., Limited, Unit A, 6/F, Yip Fat Factory Building, Phase 1, No 77 Hoi Yuen Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 4C, 8/F, Sunbeam Centre, 27 Shing Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 1905, Nam Wo Hong Building, 148 Wing Lok Street, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong; and 15B, 15/F, Cheuk Nang Plaza, 250 Hennessy Road, Wan Chai, Hong Kong | 79 FR 34217, June 16, 2014; 80 FR 4779 January 29, 2015; 80 FR 60532, October 7, 2015.
Ningbo MOOF Trading Co., Ltd., Room 312, Bldg 3, Chengxi Xintiandi, No. 799 Jucai Rd, Haishu District, Ningbo, China | 88 FR 87898, December 20, 2023.
Phonai Electronics Ltd., 51F, Core Building 11, New Territories, Hong Kong | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
Powersun Electronics, Flat/Rm 502D, Hang Pont Commercial Building, 31 Tonkin Street, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and G/F and G/M, Winner Godown Building, 1-9 Sha Tsui Road, Tsuen Wan, New Territories, Hong Kong | 79 FR 34217, June 16, 2014; 80 FR 4781, January 29, 2015.
Rising Logistics Company Limited, Workshop 12, 13/F, Block B, New Trade Plaza, No. 6, On Ping Street, Sha Tin, New Territories, Hong Kong; and Unit 208, 2/F, Block B, Hoi Luen Industrial Centre, 55 Hoi Yuen Road, Kowloon, Kwun Tong, Hong Kong; and Unit 1105, Hua Qin International Building, 340 Queens Road, Central, Hong Kong Island, Hong Kong | 84 FR 14610, April 11, 2019.
Scitech International Express Co. Limited, Workshop 11, 8/F, Block A, Delya Industrial Centre, 7 Shek Pai Tau Road, Tuen Mun, New Territories, Hong Kong | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
Selective Components Ltd., Room 8, 10/F, International Trade Centre, 11-19 Sha Tsui Road, Tsuen Wan, New Territories, Hong Kong | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
Shaanxi Hongyuan Aviation Forging, Building Hongyuan Street, Luqiao Town, Shaanxi, China 713801 | 84 FR 14610, April 11, 2019.
Shandong Yuehaitongxin Keji Ltd., Rooms 1318-1319, Hollywood Plaza, 610 Nathan Road, Mongkok, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Flat 8, 4/F, Festigood Centre, No. 8 Lok Yip Road, On Lok Tsuen, Fanling, New Territories, Hong Kong | 88 FR 17708, March 24, 2023.
Shanghai Institute of Applied Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 239 Zhangheng Road, Pudong District, Shanghai, China | 84 FR 14610, April 11, 2019.
Shanxi Hemu Industrial Co., Ltd., Yongchang Rd, Xianyang HiTech Industries Development Zone, Shanxi, China | 83 FR 22844, May 17, 2018.
Shenzhen Bozhitongda Technologic Co., Ltd., Rm 802, Shanhuju, Shenzhen, Luohu, 518000, China; and No. 3018 Shennan Avenue, Huahang Community, Huaqiangbei Street, Futian District, Shenzhen City, China; and No. 3407, Century Plaza, Zhonghang Road, Huaqiangbei Street, Futian District, Shenzhen City, China | 88 FR 87898, December 20, 2023.
Shenzhen Jingelang Co., Ltd., Rm 401, Plant 18, New 1#, Jinpeng Industrial Park, Xinxue Community, Bantian Str., Longgang District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 519997, China | 88 FR 87898, December 20, 2023.
Shenzhen Mingxinyuan Co., Ltd., No. 18 Zhonghang Road New Asia Guoli Building Room 1319, Huaqiangbei, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China | 89 FR 55038, July 3, 2024.
Shenzhen Winthought Tech, Room 223, Zhong Xing Industrial City, Chuangye Road, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China | 82 FR 16732, April 6, 2017.
Shenzhen Xianhexin Electronics Co., Ltd., Huaqiang North Street, Dingcheng Building 613, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China | 89 FR 55038, July 3, 2024.
Shusum Construction Ltd., 9th floor, Huayuan Factory Building, 15 Beech Street, Tai Kok Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong | 90 FR 17340, April 25, 2025.
Sino-World International Co., Ltd., Flat 8, 20/F, Sunwise Industrial Building, 16-26 Wang Wo Tsai Street, Tsuen Wan, New Territories, Hong Kong; and Room 1303, 13/F, 287-289 Reclamation Street, Mong Kok, Kowloon, Hong Kong | 90 FR 17340, April 25, 2025.
Skytop Electronics Ltd., Room 619, Park Fook Industrial Building, 615-617 Tai Nan West Street, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and 7/F, MW Tower, 111 Bonham Strand, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong | 89 FR 83430, October 16, 2024.
Solar Way (Hong Kong) Ltd., Rooms 1318-1319, Hollywood Plaza, 610 Nathan Road, Mongkok, Kowloon, Hong Kong | 88 FR 17708, March 24, 2023.
Suke Logistics Ltd., Flat 6, 20/F, Mega Trade Centre, 1-9 Mei Wan Street, Tsuen Wan, New Territories, Hong Kong | 80 FR 4781, January 29, 2015.
Sun Wing Ltd., Room 31, 9/F, Shing Yip Industrial Building, 19-21 Shing Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
Sun Yat-Sen University, No. 135 Xingang, Xi Road, Guangzhou, China | 85 FR 64017, October 9, 2020.
Sunway Technology Electronics Ltd., Rm 702, 7/F, Kowloon Building, 555 Nathan Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Room 102 Kerry Warehouse, No. 2 San Po St., Sheung Shui, N.T., Hong Kong, China | 88 FR 17708, March 24, 2023.
Sur-Link Technology (HK) Ltd., a.k.a. Sur-Link International (HK) Ltd., a.k.a. Surlink Group, Flat 6, 20/F, Mega Trade Centre, 1-9 Mei Wan Street, Tsuen Wan, New Territories, Hong Kong | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
Swelatel Technology Limited, Rm. 19C, Lockhart Ctr., 301-307 Lockhart Rd., Wan Chai, Hong Kong; and Rm. 2107, Lippo Centre Tower 2, 89 Queensway, Admiralty, Wan Chai, Hong Kong | 84 FR 14610, April 11, 2019.
Toptech Electronics Ltd., 15/F, Hong Kong and Macau Building, 156-157 Connaught Road, Central, Hong Kong | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
Universe Market Limited, Unit A, 17/F, Good Will Industrial Building, 36-44 Pak Tin Par Street, Tsuen Wan, New Territories, Hong Kong | 84 FR 14610, April 11, 2019.
USETA Tech (HK) Ltd., Room B, 6/F, Shing Hing, Commercial Building, 21-27 Wing Kut Street, Central, Hong Kong | 88 FR 17708, March 24, 2023.
Vauxhall International Co., Ltd., a.k.a. Vauxhall International Logistics Co., Ltd., DD102 LOT359RP-362, 365RP, 366RP, Warehouse B, San Tin, Yuen Long, New Territories, Hong Kong; and 8 Siu Hum Tsuen, San Tin, Yuen Long, New Territories, Hong Kong; and 11 Siu Hum Tsuen, San Tin, Yuen Long, New Territories, Hong Kong | 90 FR 17340, April 25, 2025.
Winners Global Trading Co., Room 2, 5/F., Winful Centre, 30 Shing Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong | 88 FR 17708, March 24, 2023.
Winthought Company Ltd., Unit E1, 3/F, Wing Tat Commercial Building, 121-125 Wing Lok Street, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
Wuhan Institute of Biological Products Co., Ltd., No 1 Golden Industrial Park Road, Zhengdian Street, Jiangxia District, Wuhan City, Hubei Province, 430207, China | 87 FR 61975, October 13, 2022.
Wuxi Beetech Inc., No. 58 4th Floor Feihong Road, Nanhu, Wuxi, China | 84 FR 14610, April 11, 2019.
Xi'An Aerotek Co., Ltd., No. 4 First Road Hi Tech Zone Xi'An, Shaanxi, China | 89 FR 55038, July 3, 2024.
Xian Zhongsheng Shengyuan Technology Co., Ltd., 9 Gardens at 202 South Second ring Rd, Lianju District, Xian 710000, China | 87 FR 61975, October 13, 2022.
Xiang Cheng Gao Trading (HK) Ltd., 1215 Lot, DD 125, Ha Tsuen Road, Ha Tsuen, Ping Shan, Yuen Long, New Territories, Hong Kong | 85 FR 83789, December 23, 2020.
Yashen (HK) Electronics, Flat R, 15/F, Phase 2, Goldfield Industrial Building, 144-150 Tai Lin Pai Road, Kai Chung, New Territories, Hong Kong; and Room N, 3/F, Mongkok Building, 97 Mongkok Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong | 79 FR 34220, June 16, 2014.
Yield Best International, 6/F, Block H, East Sun Industrial Centre, 16 Shing Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Unit J, 9/F, King Win Factory Building, 65-67 King Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Hong Kong | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
Yogone Electronics Co., Unit 602, 6/F, Silvercord Tower 2, 30 Canton Road, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong | 80 FR 60532, October 7, 2015.
YXS Technology Co., Ltd., Room 608, 6/F, West Tower, Fiyta Building, Huaqian North Street, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China | 89 FR 83430, October 16, 2024.
ZDAS (HK) Company, G/F, 16 Kwan Tei North Tsuen Leung Yeuk Tau, Sha Tau Kok Road, Fanling, Hong Kong; and Room 1609, 16/F, Block B, Veristrong Industrial Center, 34-36 Au Pui Wan Street, FoTaan, Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong | 79 FR 34220, June 16, 2014.
Zhengzhou Baiwai Intelligent Automation, National University Tech Park, Changchun Road #11 Hi-Tech District, Zhengzhou City, Henan Province, China | 87 FR 7039, February 8, 2022.
ZhongJie Electronics, G/F, 26 Pau Chung Street, Tokwawan, Kowloon, Hong Kong; and Rm 2309, 23/F, Ho King Comm Ctr, 2-16 Fayuen St., Mongkok, Kowloon, Hong Kong | 79 FR 34220, June 16, 2014.
CYPRUS | Mirsystems Ltd, Griva Digeni 28 1st Floor, Nicosia, 1066 Cyprus | 89 FR 55038, July 3, 2024.
CZECH REPUBLIC | Bonitopto S.R.O., Vancurova 1084/10, Ostrov 363 01, Czech Republic; and, Jachymovska 178, Ostrov 363 01, Czech Republic | 80 FR 60532, October 7, 2015.
ESTONIA | Simms Marine Group OU, Paavli Str. 5⁄2, Tallinn, Estonia, 10412 | 83 FR 22844, May 17, 2018; 83 FR 26205, June 6, 2018.
FINLAND | Aelcomp OY, Kurkisuontie 2B, Helsinki 00904 Finland; and Merisotilaankatu 2, Helsinki 00160 Finland | 85 FR 64017, October 9, 2020.
Buran TMI, Koverinkatu 2-31, Lappeenranta, Finland | 90 FR 17340, April 25, 2025.
Finland Multi Center FMC OY a.k.a. Finland Multi Center OY a.k.a. Finland Multi Center, Rajahovintie 14, Vaalimaa, 49930 Finland | 90 FR 17340, April 25, 2025.
Finnalliance OY, Poskelantie 3, Lappeenranta, Finland | 90 FR 17340, April 25, 2025.
Inmargo OY, Asentajankatu 15, Kotka, 48700, Finland; and Puutarhakatu 29 A 22, Kotka, Finland | 90 FR 17340, April 25, 2025.
Intertranslog OY, Tupatallinkatu 3, Lappeenranta 53300 Finland; and Harapaisentie 55, Lappeenranta 53301 Finland | 85 FR 64017, October 9, 2020.
Karjalan Puutyo, Vehkavaarantie 260, Onkamo, 82360, Finland | 90 FR 17340, April 25, 2025.
MM Cargo OY a.k.a. MM Cargo WH a.k.a. MM Cargo, Harapaisentie 55, Lappeenranta, 53500, Finland | 90 FR 17340, April 25, 2025.
Sav-Inter OY Ltd., Nuolitie 20, Vantaa, Finland; and Manttaalitie 5, Vantaa, Finland; and Virkatie 1, Vantaa, Finland | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
GEORGIA | Spars Ltd., a.k.a. Spars Trading Ltd., Room 1, House 11, Nutsubdize 111 marker, Tbilisi, Georgia, 0183 | 80 FR 60532, October 7, 2015.
GERMANY | Arabian Aviation Trade Group, a.k.a. AAT, Wassmanstrasse 16, D30459 Hannover, Germany | 89 FR 83430, October 16, 2024.
In Time Forwarding & Courier e.K., HACC Building 393 A Weg beim Jager, 22335 Hamburg, Germany | 88 FR 17708, March 24, 2023.
One Light GMBH, Billstrasse 123, Hamburg, Germany; and Billwerder Neuer Deich 72, Hamburg, Germany | 88 FR 17708, March 24, 2023.
Tiptrans Limited, Hauptstrasse 22, D02727 Neugersdorg, Germany | 89 FR 83430, October 16, 2024.
Universal Logistics Systems GmbH Cargo City Sud, Building 577, Frankfurt Airport, Frankfurt am Main, Germany | 85 FR 64017, October 9, 2020.
INDIA | Conduit Technologies Pvt., Ltd., Office 201, 2/F, Lunkad Sky Station, Konark Naga, Mhada Colony, Viman Nagar, Pune, India; and Office UG21, East Court, Phoenix Market City, Viman Nagar, Pune, India | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
ISRAEL | CNG Labs, a.k.a. CNG Computers, 30 Kikar Zahal, Kiryat Shemona, Israel, 1103303; and 104 Tel Hai St., Kiryat Shemona, Israel | 88 FR 17708, March 24, 2023.
ITALY | Euro Servizi Elettromeccanici Industriali S.E.I., Via Sempione 17, 21011, Carorate Sempione, Italy | 90 FR 17340, April 25, 2025.
KAZAKHSTAN | EltexAlatau, 34 Luganskogo Street, 2nd Floor, Almaty, Kazakhstan; and 9 Ibragimov Street, Alatau District, Almaty, Kazakhstan | 90 FR 17340, April 25, 2025.
Inter-Traid Electro a.k.a. Inter-Trade Electro LLP a.k.a. TOO “Inter-Treid Elektro” a.k.a. “Inter-Treid Elektro” J Sh S, 19 Orlikol Street, Astana, Kazakhstan | 90 FR 17340, April 25, 2025.
KYRGYZSTAN | Inerto LLC, Lermontov Street House 1, Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan | 89 FR 55038, July 3, 2024.
LATVIA | Alfa Photonics, 21 Krisjana Valdemara Iela, Riga, Latvia; and 151-11 Krisjana Valdemara Iela, Riga, Latvia; and 52-66 Darza Iela, Riga, Latvia; and Nordic Technology Park, 15/25 Jurkalnes Iela, Riga, Latvia | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
LEBANON | Al Ghayth Trade and Transport, 1st Floor, Bohsali Bldg., Beirut Port Street, Beirut, Lebanon | 82 FR 16732, April 6, 2017.
MALAYSIA | Golden Gamp Sdn Bhd, Ground Floor, No. 122, Jalan Thamby Abdullah, off Jalan Tun Sambanthan, Brickfields, Kuala Lumpur 50470 Malaysia; and Unit A1-15-02, Business Suits, Arcoris Mont Kiara, Jalan Kiara, Kuala Lumpur 50480 Malaysia; and Unit 1-2 Menara Mudajaya No. 12A, Jalan PJU 7⁄3 Mutiara Damansara, Petaling Jaya 47810 Malaysia | 88 FR 17708, March 24, 2023.
Infomaya Tech Sdn Bhd, Level 2, Enterprise 5 Technology Park, Bukit Jalil 57000, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia | 84 FR 14610, April 11, 2019.
Premier Kiosk Global Supply Co., aka PKGS, aka Global Kiosk, No. 5, 18th Floor, Plaza 138, Hotel Maya, Jalan Ampang, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 50450 | 84 FR 14610, April 11, 2019.
PAKISTAN | Andleeb Associates, Sultan Complex, Abid Majeed Road, Rawalpindi, Pakistan | 83 FR 22844, May 17, 2018.
Marshal Traders, Office-5, 41st Street, Block-H Soan Garden, Islamabad, Pakistan; and Magnum Arcade, Apt #207, 2nd Floor North Strip Federation Markaz, Islamabad, Pakistan | 89 FR 83430, October 16, 2024.
Naina Exporters and Importers, H-96, Intelligence School Colony, M.T. Khan Road, Karachi, Pakistan | 85 FR 64017, October 9, 2020.
SINGAPORE | Dorado Network Pte., Ltd., 128 Joo Seng Road, DP Computers Building 04-04, Singapore; and 629 Aljunied Road, Cititech Industrial Building, Singapore; and 512 Woodlands Drive 14, Singapore | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
SWITZERLAND | Light Range AG, Stutzstrasse 13C, Schindellegi, Switzerland; and Lowenstrasse 20, Zurich, Switzerland; and Via Delle Scuole 34E, Figino, Switzerland | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
TÜRKIYE | AUK Group, Kurtulus Mah. Sinasi Efendi Sk. Ahmet Paksoy Apt. No:17 Kat:2, Seyhan. Adana 01010, Türkiye; and 34277 Arnavutkoy Tayakadin Mah. Branch, Istanbul 34540, Türkiye | 89 FR 55038, July 3, 2024.
Bagil Havacilik, Eskicami-Ortacami Mah. Kafkas, Sok. No:15 B Suleymanpasa, Tekirdag, Türkiye | 90 FR 17340, April 25, 2025.
Basak Traktor, Hanli Sakarya Mah. Basak Sok., No:62/1 Arifiye, Sakarya, Türkiye | 90 FR 17340, April 25, 2025.
BLC Havacilik Saglik Medikal Insaat Elektrik Ic ve Dis Ticaret Asemek San.Sit. 1469 Cad. No:18, İvedik—OSB 06378, Ankara, Türkiye | 88 FR 17708, March 24, 2023.; 89 FR 55038, July 3, 2024.
ER Transport Uluslararasi Tasimacilik Limited Sirketi, Kucukbakkalkoy Mah. Dudullu Cad. R2 Blok Sitesi Brandium Blok NO:23-25b Ic Kapi No:86 Atasehir, Istanbul, Türkiye; and Serifali Mah. Buyukyavuz Sk. Royal Plaza B Blok No:3 Ic Kapi No:16 Umraniye, Istanbul, Türkiye | 89 FR 55038, July 3, 2024.
Fast Aviation, Yesilkoy MAH Ataturk, Cad. EGS Bloklari, B:2 No:2 D:1, Istanbul, Türkiye | 85 FR 64017, October 9, 2020; 89 FR 55038, July 3, 2024.
Metafor Lojistik, Ma. Istiklal Cad. Beyoglu, Istanbul, Türkiye | 85 FR 64017, October 9, 2020; 89 FR 55038, July 3, 2024.
Ozkanlar Grup Makine AS, Ahi Evran OSB Mah. Anadolu Cad. NO:7, 06930 Sincan, Ankara, Türkiye | 90 FR 17340, April 25, 2025.
Pegasus Technic Services, a.k.a. Pegasus Teknik Servis and Air Technic Services, OBA Mah. Karakuslar Sk. Berfin Sitesi, B Blok No: 2B No: 2 Alanya, Antalya, Türkiye | 89 FR 83430, October 16, 2024.
Piro Deniz Motorlari, Safak Mh. Akdeniz San. Sit. 50003 Sk., No: 115 Kepez—Antalya, Antalya, Türkiye | 88 FR 17708, March 24, 2023; 89 FR 55038, July 3, 2024.
Üçüzler Lojistik Gida Tekstil, a.k.a. Üçüzler Lojistik Ltd Sti, Yeni Mahalle Hamit Öcal Caddesi, No 35/1, Reyhanli/Hatay, Türkiye 31500; and Yeni Mahalle Hamit Öcal Caddesi, No 29, Reyhanli/Hatay, Turkey 31500; and Yeni Mahalle Dr. Nihat Kural Sk., Apt No: 15/11, Reyhanli/Hatay, Türkiye 31500 | 88 FR 17708, March 24, 2023; 89 FR 55038, July 3, 2024.
Vast Polymers, Ambalaj Sanayi Ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi, a.k.a. Novaroll, Atakoy 7-8-9-10, Kisim Mah. Cobancesme, E-5 Yan Yol Cad. A No: 22/1 Ic Kapi: 164 Bakirkoy, Istanbul, Türkiye | 89 FR 83430, October 16, 2024.
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES | Abu Trade LLC, Lot Number 155, Al Zaroni Yard, Al Wasl Road, Dubai, UAE | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
Al Kabiru Trading LLC, Block 10, Suite 112, Office Land Building, Al Karama, Dubai, UAE | 88 FR 17708, March 24, 2023.
Alsaroud General Trading, a.k.a. Alsaroud Ground Trading Company, a.k.a. Alsarroud General Trading LLC, Avenue 125, Street 2, Building 30/1, Industrial Area 17, Sharjah, UAE; and P.O. Box 35939, Sharjah, UAE; and 204 Shaikha Hind Bint Saqr Alqasemi Building, Near Etisalat Building, Almareja Street, Al Jubail, Sharjah, UAE | 83 FR 22844, May 17, 2018.
Alsima Middle East General Trading, 802 Whiteswan Building, near Fairmont Hotel, Sheikh Zayed Road, Dubai, UAE | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
Blue Wing General Trading, Damas Tower #506, Al Maktoum Road, Dubai, UAE | 82 FR 16732, April 6, 2017.
BNS Hardware, a.k.a. The Fair Price Shop, Warehouse No. 5, Street 21, Sharjah Industrial Area 6, Sharjah City, UAE | 88 FR 17708, March 24, 2023.
Diamond River General Trading, a.k.a. Excells Shipping, a.k.a. Excells General Trading, Office #343, Al Nokhita Building, Al Khaleej Road, Dubai, UAE | 88 FR 17708, March 24, 2023.
Doubair General Trading Co. LLC, P.O. Box 30239, Dubai, UAE | 79 FR 34220, June 16, 2014.
EBN AUF Trading, P.O. Box 330073, Ras Al Khaimah, United Arab Emirates; and P.O. Box 42558, Ras Al Khaimah, United Arab Emirates | 84 FR 14610, April 11, 2019.
Elemental Lab, PO Box 172237, Dubai UAE; and Gargash Ctr near Babkha Sub, Gargashe 7 Flr Ofc Num 703, Dubai, UAE; and 701 Benyas Building, Benyas Square, Dubai, UAE; and 701, Baniyas Building, Baniyas Square, Dubai, UAE | 85 FR 64017, October 9, 2020.
Empire of East General Trading, M110, Al Khaleej Center, Bur Dubai, Dubai, UAE; and 112 Al-Ain Center, Al Mankhool Road, Bur Dubai, Dubai, UAE 34608; and 112 Al-Ain Center, P.O. Box 112100, Bur Dubai, Dubai, UAE 34608; and Office #1904, Al Mousa Tower 2, Sheikh Zayed Road, Dubai, UAE | 84 FR 14610, April 11, 2019.
Establishment Standard Lab FZE, a.k.a. Standard Lab FZE, Ras Al Khaimah Free Trade Zone Business Park, Ras Al Khaimah, UAE; and P.O. Box 17049, Ras Al Khaimah, UAE | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
Golden Business FZE, Warehouse #FZS1 AN08, Jebel Ali Free Zone, Dubai, UAE; and P.O. Box 263128, Dubai, UAE | 79 FR 34220, June 16, 2014.
Gulf Modern Solutions Engineering Company, No. 14, 35B Street, Al Satwa Road, Dubai, UAE | 80 FR 60532, October 7, 2015.
Kassem IT, Techno Park Office 135, JAFZA Building 22, P.O. Box 98166, Jebel Ali Free Zone, Dubai, UAE; and Warehouse UD2, Between Roundabout 7,8, Jebel Ali Free Zone, Dubai, UAE; and Roundabout 8 WA—06, Jebel Ali Free Zone, Dubai, UAE | 84 FR 14610, April 11, 2019.
Marinatec, Office 2008, Grosvenor Commercial Tower, Sheikh Zayed Road, Dubai, UAE; and P.O. Box 42236, 17A Radisson Plaza, Deira, Dubai, UAE | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
Masomi General Trading, Unit No. B605, Baniyas Complex, Baniyas Square, P.O. Box 39497, Dubai, UAE | 80 FR 60532, October 7, 2015.
Masoud Afghan General Trading, Plot No. S31216 Jebel Ali Free Zone, Dubai, United Arab Emirates | 88 FR 17708, March 24, 2023.
Middle East Oilfield Equipment, 723 Sama Tower, 6/F, near Fairmont Hotel, Sheikh Zayed Road, P.O. Box 4404, Dubai, UAE; and 217 Twin Towers, Baniyas Road, P.O. Box 4404, Deira, Dubai, UAE; and Flat 102, Mohammed Zainal Faraidooni Building, Salahuddin Road, Dubai, UAE | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
Navio Shipping LLC, Suite 3801, Aspin Commercial Tower Sheikh Zayed Road, PO Box 122471 Dubai, UAE | 89 FR 55038, July 3, 2024.
Pacific Ocean Star General Trading, aka Pacific Ocean Marine Services, Floor 12A/Office 04, Damac Executive Bay Tower B, Al A'amal St., Business Bay, P.O. Box 187128, Dubai, UAE; and Office 707, Damac Executive Bay Tower B, Al A'amal St., Business Bay, P.O. Box 187128, Dubai, UAE | 84 FR 14610, April 11, 2019.
Piricas Trading Company, No. 507 Al Mina Street, P.O. Box 181950, Dubai, UAE | 85 FR 64017, October 9, 2020.
Renat International General Trading, Office #H241, Building #1G, Ajman Free Zone, Ajman, UAE; and Building #H1, Behind China Mall, Ajman Free Zone Area, Ajman, UAE | 80 FR 60532, October 7, 2015.
Rich Star General Trading LLC, #203 The Atrium Centre, Khalid bin Waleed Road, Bur Dubai, Dubai, UAE; and P.O. Box 181977, Dubai, UAE | 80 FR 4781, January 29, 2015.
Rising Sun FZE, BC 1300147, Ajman Freezone, Ajman, UAE; and G08, Block G1, Dubai Airport Free Zone Area (DAFZA), Dubai, UAE | 85 FR 64017, October 9, 2020.
Roudah Al Hayat General Trading FZE, a.k.a. Rudha Al Hayat General Trading, a.k.a. Rouda Al Hayat General Trading, a.k.a. JSB Logistics, 406 Al Rhakaimi Building, Deira, Dubai, UAE; and #3204 Aspect Tower D, Sheikh Zayed Road, Dubai, UAE; and #1506 Aspect Tower D, Sheikh Zayed Road, Dubai, UAE and 901 Regal Tower, Business Bay, Dubai, UAE and 402 Al Fahad Building, Damascus Street, Dubai, UAE | 83 FR 22844, May 17, 2018.
Tek Work General Trading, 1902 Metropolis Business Tower, P.O. Box 12865, Business Bay, Dubai, UAE | 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016.
Trade Star FZC, Sheikh Zayed Road, Al Mossa Tower 1, 17th Floor, Dubai, UAE; and P.O. Box 51159, Sharjah, UAE; and ELOB Office #E55G-31, Hamriyah Free Zone, Sharjah, UAE | 80 FR 60532, October 7, 2015.
World Heavy Equipment, Industrial Area 10, Ras Al Khaimah, UAE; and World Equipment Trading L.L.C, Industrial Area 10, Ras Al Khaimah, UAE | 79 FR 34220, June 16, 2014.
UNITED KINGDOM | Identiparts Ltd., 32 Market Field, Steyning BN44 3SU, United Kingdom; and 65 Hurston Close, Findon Valley, Worthing, United Kingdom; and Hayes & CO, 2nd Floor, Olivier House, 77-79 High Street, Steyning, BN44 3RE, United Kingdom | 90 FR 17340, April 25, 2025.
[79 FR 34220, June 16, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 4781, Jan. 29, 2015; 80 FR 60532, Oct. 7, 2015; 81 FR 40171, June 21, 2016; 82 FR 16732, Apr. 6, 2017; 83 FR 22844, May 17, 2018; 83 FR 26205, June 6, 2018; 84 FR 14610, Apr. 11, 2019; 84 FR 30595, June 27, 2019; 85 FR 64017, Oct. 9, 2020; 85 FR 83788, Dec. 23, 2020; 86 FR 1768, Jan. 11, 2021; 86 FR 36509, July 12, 2021; 87 FR 7039, Feb. 8, 2022; 87 FR 61975, Oct. 13, 2022; 87 FR 76927, Dec. 16, 2022; 87 FR 77518, Dec. 19, 2022; 88 FR 17708, Mar. 24, 2023; 88 FR 57004, Aug. 22, 2023; 88 FR 87670, Dec. 19, 2023; 88 FR 87898, Dec. 20, 2023,89 FR 4188, Jan. 23, 2024; 89 FR 55038, July 3, 2024; 89 FR 83430, Oct. 16, 2024; 90 FR 17340, Apr. 25, 2025]

Supplement No. 7 to Part 744—'Military End-User' (MEU) List

The license requirement for entities listed in supplement no. 7 to part 744 applies to the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of any item subject to the EAR listed in supplement no. 2 to part 744. A license is required to export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) any item subject to the EAR listed in supplement no. 2 to part 744 when an entity that is listed on the MEU List is a party to the transaction as described in § 748.5(c) through (f). No license exceptions are available for exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) to listed entities on the MEU List for items specified in supplement no. 2 to part 744, except license exceptions for items authorized under the provisions of License Exception GOV set forth in § 740.11(b)(2)(i) and (ii) of the EAR as specified in § 744.21(c). The MEU List license requirements and other MEU List restrictions also apply to any foreign entity that is owned, directly or indirectly, individually or in aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more listed entities or entities that are subject to restrictions based upon their ownership. An entity owned 50 percent or more, directly or indirectly, by multiple entities subject to EAR license requirements pursuant to some combination of the Entity List, MEU List, or SDN List designated under programs listed in § 744.8(a)(1), is subject to the most restrictive license requirements, license exception eligibility, and license review policy applicable to one or more of its owners under the EAR. If an exporter, reexporter, or transferor cannot determine the ownership percentage of a foreign entity that is an entity owned, directly or indirectly, by one or more listed entities, they must resolve the Red Flag or obtain a license from BIS prior to proceeding with the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) (see Red Flag 29 in supplement no. 3 to part 732). The license application procedure and license review policy for entities specified in this supplement 7 to part 744 is specified in § 744.21(d) and (e).
Country | Entity | Federal Register citation
BURMA | [Reserved] | [Reserved]
CAMBODIA | [Reserved] | [Reserved]
CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF | Academy of Aerospace Solid Propulsion Technology (AASPT), Tian Wang te Zi #1, Baqiao District, Xian, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
The following eight subordinate institutions of Aero-Engine Company of China:
Subordinate institution:
AECC Aero Science & Technology Co. Ltd., Cheng-fa Industrial Park, ShuLong Road, SanHe Block, Sichuan, Chengdu, China.
AECC Aviation Power Co. Ltd., Xiujia Bay, Weiyong Dt., Xian 710021, China
Subordinate institution:
AECC Beijing Institute of Aeronautical. Materials, No. 8 Hangcai Avenue, Beijing, Haidian District, China
Subordinate institution:
AECC China Gas Turbine Establishment, No. 1 Hangkong Road, Mianyang, Sichuan Province, China
Subordinate institution:
AECC Commercial Aircraft Engine Co. Ltd., No. 3998 South Lianhua Road, Shanghai 200241, Minhang District, China
Subordinate institution:
AECC Harbin Dongan Engine Co., Ltd., No. 51 Baoguo Street, Haerbin 150036, China
Subordinate institution:
AECC Shenyang Liming Aero Engine Co., Ltd., No. 6 Dongta Street, Shenyang 110043, China
Subordinate instituion:
AECC South Industry Company Limited, 95 Xinghua West Road, Zhuzhou 412002, China
Anhui Yingliu Hangyuan Power, 96 West Pihe Rd., Hengshan Town, Jiangxi, Shangrao, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
The following seven subordinate institutions of Aviation Industry Corporation of China: | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Subordinate instituion:
AVIC Aircraft Co. Ltd., No. 1 Xifei Avenue, Xian 710089, Yanliang District, China
Subordinate instituion:
AVIC Chengdu Aircraft Industrial (GROUP) Co., Ltd., No. 88 Weiyi Road, Huang Tianba, Chengdu 610091, China
Subordinate instituion:
AVIC Flight Automatic Control Research Institute (FACRI), No. 92 Dianzi 1st Road, AVIC No 618 Institute, Xian 710065, China
Subordinate instituion:
AVIC General Aircraft Huanan Industry Co. Ltd., No. 999, Jinhai Middle Road, Jinwan District, Building 201Z Huhai 519040, Guangdong Province, China
Subordinate instituion:
AVIC General Aircraft Zhejiang Institute Co., Ltd., Floor 9, Building 1, 48 KeYuan Road, ZheJiang, China
Subordinate instituion:
AVIC International Holding Corporation, No. 18 Beichen East Road, Beijing 100101 Chaoyang District, China
Subordinate instituion:
AVIC Leihua Electronic Technology Research Institute (LETRI), No. 796 Liangxi Road, Binhu District 214063, China
Baimtec Material Co., Ltd., No 5, Yongxiang North Road, Yongfeng Ind, Beijing 100094, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Beijing Aero Lever Precision Ltd., Houju St No. 3 Changping, High Tec Park, Beijing 102200, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Beijing Ander Tech. Co., Ltd. No. C22, Yu An Rd., Area B, Tianzhu, Beijing 101318, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020 .
Beijing Guang Ming Electronics Co., Ltd., No. 41 Yu Qiao Bei Li, Tongzhou District, Beijing 101100, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Beijing Siyuan Electronic Co., Ltd., Satellite Building, No. 63 Zhichun Road, Haidian District, Beijing 100086, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Beijing Skyrizon Aviation Industry Investment Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias:—Beijing Tianjiao Aviation Industry Investment Company 21/F Tower C Zhizhen Plaza, No. 7 Zhichun Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China. | 86 FR 4864, 1/15/2021.
CAST Xi'an Spaceflight Engine Factory, a.k.a., the following one alias:—7103 Factory 7103 Factory No 6 Academy No 69, Shenzhou Second Road, Aerospace Base, Xian, China. | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Chengdu Holy Aviation Science & Tech, No. 220, Tongjiang Road, Pengzhou City, Sichuan 611936, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
China Aviation Ind. Std. Parts No. 355, Baiyun S. Road, Baiyun Dist, Gui Yang 550014, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Chongqing Optel Telecom Technology Co., Ltd., No. 1, 6/F, Building 7, No. 106 West Section, Jinkai Avenue, Yubei District, Chongqing, China | 85 FR 83799 12/23/2020. 86 FR 29193, 6/1/2021.
CSSC Xijiang Shipbuilding Co., Ltd., No. 133 Fenghuang Road, Liuzhou City, Guangxi 572000, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Elink Electronic Technology Co. Ltd., Room 717, Building 41, No. 8633 Zhongchun Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Fly Raise International Limited, Unit 04 7/F Bright Way Tower, No. 33 Mong Kok Road, Kowloon 999077, Hong Kong | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Fuhua Precision Man. Co, Fanhua Ave and Wanfoshan Rd, Taohua Ind. Park, Hefei City, Jingkai Dist, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Government Flying Service, 18 South Perimeter Road, Hong Kong Int'l Airport, Lantau, Hong Kong | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Guangzhou Hangxin Aviation Technology Co., Ltd., No. 1 Guangbao Road, Guangzhou Luogang District, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Guizhou Aviation Tech. Dev. Nat., Shangbashan Road, Guiyang City, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Guizhou Liyang Intl Manufacturing Co Ltd., No. 1 Gaotie Road, Anshun City 561102 Guizhou, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Hafei Aviation Industry Co., Ltd. (HAFEI), Nancheng Rd No. 2, HARBIN 150066, Heilongjiang Province, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Hangzhou Bearing Test & Research Center Co., Ltd., No. 333 Hua Feng Road, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Harbin General Aircraft Industry Co., Ltd., a.k.a., the following one alias: —Harbin Hafei Aviation Industry Co. Ltd. 15 Youxie Street, Harbin 150066, Pingfang District, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Henan Aerospace Precision Mach, 15 Xinnan Road, Xinyang 464000, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Hunan South General Aviation Engine Co., Ltd., Dongjiaduan, Hi-Tech Industry Zone, Zhuzhou, Hunan 412000, Lusong District, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Jiangsu Meilong Aviation Components Co., No. 88 Wufengshang Road, Suzhou, Zhenjiang 212132, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Jiatai Aircraft Equipment Co., Ltd., No. 1 ZhongHang Ave., Fancheng District, Xiangyang City, Hubei Province, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Jincheng Group Imp & Exp. Co. Ltd. Floor 26th Jincheng Plaza, 216 Middle Longpan Road, Nanjing, Jiangsu 210002, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Laboratory of Toxicant Analysis, Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, No. 27 Taiping Road, Beijing, Haidian District, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Nanjing Engineering Institute of Aircraft Systems (NEIAS), 33 Shuige Road, Jiangning Economic Development Zone, Nanjing 211106, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
National Satellite Meteorological Bureau, No. 46 Baishiqiao Road, HaiDian District, Beijing 100081, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Second Institute of Oceanography, Ministry of Natural Resources, No. 36 Baochubei Road, Hangzhou 310012, Hangzhou Xihu District, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Shaanxi Aero Electric Co., Ltd., 17th, Jinye 2 Road, Xian High Tech Zone Xian, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Shaanxi Aircaft Industry Co Ltd., P.O. 34, Hanzhong City 723213, Shaanxi Province, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Shanghai Aerospace Equip. Man., No. 100 Huaning Road, Shanghai 200245, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Shanghai Aircraft Design and Research Institute, No. 5 Yun Jin Road, Shanghai 200232, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Shanghai Aircraft Manufacturing Co. Ltd. (SAMC), No. 919 Shangfei Road, Shanghai 201324, Pudong New District, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Shanghai Tianlang Electronic Science Co., Ltd., 1500 Qinjiagang Road, Room 112 & 6, Shanghai, Pudong New Area, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Shenyang Academy of Instrumentation Science Co., Ltd., No. 242, Baihai Street, Shenyang 110043, Dadong District, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Shenyang Aircraft Corporation, 1 Lingbei Street, Shenyang 110000, Huanggu District, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Shenyang Xizi Aviation Industry Co., Ltd., 76-43 Shenbei Road, Shenyang 110136, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Sichuan Hangte Aviation Tech. Co., Ltd., No. 269, 3rd Tengfei Road, Southwest Airport Economy Development Zone, Chengdu 61000, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Star Tech Aviation Co., Ltd., Unit E1, 15/F, 41-43 Au Pui Wan Street, On Wah IND Bldg, Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong 999077, Hong Kong | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Sumec Instruments Equipment Co. Ltd., 198 Changjiang Road, 14/F Nanjing 210018, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Suzhou Eric Mechanics and Electronics Co. Ltd., No. 8 Huqiao Road, Suzhou, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Wuxi Hyatech Co., Ltd., No. 35 Xindong an Road, Wuxi, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Wuxi Paike New Mat. Tech. Co., Ltd., No. 22 Lianhe Rd., Hudai Ind. Park, Wuxi Binhu District, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Wuxi Turbine Blade Co. Ltd., 1800 Huishan Ave., Economic Zone, Wuxi 214174, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Xac Group Aviation Electronics Import & Export Co. Ltd., 70# West Ave of Renmin, Xian 710089, Yanliang District, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
XAIC Tech (Xi'an) Industrial Co., Ltd. No. 1 Xifei Road, Xian Yanliang District, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Xian Aero-Engine Controls Co., Ltd., 750 Daqing Road, Xian, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Xian Aircraft Industrial Company Limited, No. 1 Xifei Avenue, Shanxi, Yanliang District, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Xi'an Xae Flying Aviation Manufacturing Technology Co., Ltd., No.12 Fengcheng Road, Xian 710018, Weiyang District, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Xian Xr Aero- Components Co. Ltd., Hongqi East Road, Xian 710021, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
Yibin Sanjiang Machine Co., Ltd., No. 72 MinJiangBei Road, Yibin 64407, Sichuan, China | 85 FR 83799, 12/23/2020.
NICARAGUA | [Reserved] | [Reserved]
VENEZUELA | [Reserved] | [Reserved]
[85 FR 83799, Dec. 23, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 4864, Jan. 15, 2021; 86 FR 13178, Mar. 8, 2021; 86 FR 29195, June 1, 2021; 86 FR 36509, July 12, 2021; 86 FR 67323, Nov. 26, 2021; 86 FR 70020, Dec. 9, 2021; 87 FR 12248, Mar. 3, 2022; 88 FR 66278, Sept. 27, 2023; 89 FR 18784, Mar. 15, 2024; 90 FR 47213, Sept. 30, 2025]

Effective Date Note:

At 90 FR 50857, Nov. 12, 2025, in supplement no. 7 to part 744, the introductory text was stayed, effective until Nov. 9, 2026.

Supplement No. 8 to Part 744—Guidelines for Applying 50 Percent Ownership Rule to Entity List Entries and Other End-User Controls

(a) Scope. These guidelines relating to the status of foreign affiliates of listed entities owned by individuals or entities identified on the Entity List, 'Military End-User' (MEU) List, or Specially Designated Nationals (SDN) List under programs listed in § 744.8(a)(1) of this part. This supplement sets forth guidelines with respect to foreign affiliates of listed entities owned, directly or indirectly, individually or in aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more listed entities on the Entity List in supplement no. 4 to this part, the MEU List in supplement no. 7 to this part, by one or more SDNs designated under programs listed in § 744.8(a)(1) of this part, or by one or more entities subject to restrictions based upon ownership by listed entities, as well as for when an exporter, reexporter, or transferor cannot determine the ownership percentage of a foreign entity that is an entity owned, directly or indirectly, by one or more listed entities on the Entity List or the MEU List, because the involvement of such entities as party to the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) presents a diversion concern.
(b) Application of Affiliates rule. Any foreign entity that is owned, directly or indirectly, individually or in aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more entities listed on the Entity List, 'military end-users' on the MEU List, or SDNs designated under programs listed in § 744.8(a)(1), or by one or more entities subject to restrictions based upon ownership by listed entities, is considered to be a diversion concern to such listed entities or SDNs. A license is required for any transaction where that foreign entity is a party to the transaction to the same degree as if the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) was being exported, reexported, or transferred (in-country) to its owners. Consequently, any foreign entity owned 50 percent or more by one or more entities on the Entity List, MEU List, or SDNs designated under programs listed in § 744.8 is itself considered to be listed on the Entity List, MEU List, or subject to the requirements under § 744.8, respectively. An entity owned 50 percent or more, directly or indirectly, by multiple entities subject to EAR license requirements pursuant to some combination of the Entity List, MEU List, or SDN List designated under programs listed in § 744.8(a)(1), is subject to the most restrictive license requirements, license exception eligibility, and license review policy applicable to one or more of its owners under the EAR. If an exporter, reexporter, or transferor cannot determine the ownership percentage of a foreign entity that is an entity owned, directly or indirectly, by one or more listed entities on the Entity List or MEU List, they must resolve the Red Flag or obtain a license from BIS prior to proceeding with the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) (see Red Flag 29 in supplement no. 3 to part 732).
(c) Due diligence for foreign entities of listed entities with less than 50 percent ownership by listed entities or SDNs or for parent entities of listed entities. Exporters, reexporters, and transferors are advised to act with caution when considering a transaction with a non-Entity List, non-MEU List, or non-§ 744.8 foreign entity in which one or more entities identified on the Entity List, MEU List, or SDNs designated under programs identified in § 744.8 has a significant direct or indirect ownership interest that is less than 50 percent or is a parent entity of listed entities. Such entities may be the subject of future designation on the Entity List, MEU List, or the SDN List under one of the designations identified in § 744.8, or of enforcement actions. Exporters, reexporters, and transferors should undertake due diligence to ensure that items exported to the entity are not destined for the Entity List party, MEU List party, or SDN and are reminded that the EAR imposes licensing requirements, such as end-user and end-use based restrictions in part 744 of the EAR, that could apply to such companies even if they are legally separate from the listed entity.
[90 FR 47214, Sept. 30, 2025]

Effective Date Note:

At 90 FR 50857, Nov. 12, 2025, supplement no. 8 to part 744 was stayed, effective until Nov. 9, 2026.
