PART 746—EMBARGOES AND OTHER SPECIAL CONTROLS

Authority:50 U.S.C. 4801-4852; 50 U.S.C. 4601 et seq.; 50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.; 22 U.S.C. 287c; Sec 1503, Pub. L. 108-11, 117 Stat. 559; 22 U.S.C. 2151 note; 22 U.S.C. 6004; 22 U.S.C. 7201 et seq.; 22 U.S.C. 7210; E.O. 12854, 58 FR 36587, 3 CFR, 1993 Comp., p. 614; E.O. 12918, 59 FR 28205, 3 CFR, 1994 Comp., p. 899; Presidential Determination 2003-23, 68 FR 26459, 3 CFR, 2004 Comp., p. 320; Presidential Determination 2007-7, 72 FR 1899, 3 CFR, 2006 Comp., p. 325; Pub. L. 118-50; E.O. 14312.
Source:61 FR 12806, Mar. 25, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

§ 746.1 Introduction.

In this part, references to the EAR are references to 15 CFR chapter VII, subchapter C. This part implements broad based controls for items and activities subject to the EAR imposed to implement U.S. government policies. Two categories of controls are included in this part.
(a) Comprehensive controls. This part contains or refers to all the BIS licensing requirements, licensing policies, and License Exceptions for countries subject to general embargoes or comprehensive sanctions, currently Cuba, Iran, and Syria. This part is the focal point for all the EAR requirements for transactions involving these countries.
(1) Cuba. All the items on the Commerce Control List (CCL) require a license to Cuba. In addition, most other items subject to the EAR, but not included on the CCL, designated by the Number “EAR99”, require a license to Cuba. Most items requiring a license to these destinations are subject to a general policy of denial. Because these controls extend to virtually all exports, they do not appear in the Country Chart in part 738 of the EAR, nor are they reflected in the Commerce Control List in part 774 of the EAR.
(2) Iran. BIS maintains license requirements and other restrictions on exports and reexports to Iran. A comprehensive embargo on transactions involving this country is administered by the Department of The Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC).
(3) Syria. Section 746.9 of this part sets forth the specific license requirements, licensing policy and license exceptions applicable to Syria.
(b) Sanctions on selected categories of items to specific destinations. (1) BIS controls the export and reexport of selected categories of items to countries under United Nations Security Council arms embargoes. See the Commerce Control List in supplement no. 1 to part 774. See also §§ 746.3 (Iraq) and 746.4 (North Korea).
(2) The countries subject to United Nations Security Council arms embargoes are: Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Eritrea, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Libya, North Korea, Somalia, and Sudan.
(3) A license is required to export or reexport items identified in Part 774 as having a “UN” reason for control to countries identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. To the extent consistent with United States national security and foreign policy interests, BIS will not approve applications for such licenses if the authorization would be contrary to the relevant United Nations Security Council Resolution.
(4) You may not use any License Exception, other than License Exception GOV, for items for personal or official use by personnel and agencies of the U.S. Government or agencies of cooperating governments as set forth in § 740.11(b) of the EAR, to export or reexport items with a UN reason for control to countries listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. This paragraph does not apply to Iraq, which is governed by § 746.3(c) of this part; North Korea, which is governed by § 746.4(c) of this part; or Iran, which is governed by § 746.7(c) of this part.
(c) Russian Industry Sector Sanctions. The Russian Industry Sector Sanctions are set forth under § 746.5 and referenced under the License Requirements section of certain Export Control Classification Numbers (ECCNs) in supplement No. 1 to part 774 (Commerce Control List), as well as in a footnote to the Commerce Country Chart in supplement no. 1 to part 738.
(d) This part also contains descriptions of controls maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Treasury Department and by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls in the Department of State. Comprehensive embargoes and supplemental controls implemented by BIS under the EAR usually also involve controls on items and activities maintained by these agencies. This part sets forth the allocation of licensing responsibilities between BIS and these other agencies. References to the requirements of other agencies are informational; for current, complete, and authoritative requirements, you should consult the appropriate agency's regulations.
[61 FR 12806, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 25459, May 9, 1996; 65 FR 38160, June 19, 2000; 67 FR 70546, Nov. 25, 2002; 69 FR 3005, Jan. 22, 2004; 69 FR 23638, Apr. 29, 2004; 69 FR 46076, July 30, 2004; 72 FR 3725, Jan. 26, 2007; 73 FR 36, Jan. 2, 2008; 76 FR 77117, Dec. 12, 2011; 77 FR 42975, July 23, 2012; 78 FR 22723, Apr. 16, 2013; 79 FR 32625, June 5, 2014; 79 FR 45679, Aug. 6, 2014; 81 FR 76861, Nov. 4, 2016; 90 FR 42320, Sept. 2, 2025]

§ 746.2 Cuba.

(a) License requirements. As authorized by section 6 of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (EAA) and by the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917, as amended, you will need a license to export or reexport all items subject to the EAR (see part 734 of the EAR for the scope of items subject to the EAR) to Cuba, including any release of technology or source code subject to the EAR to a Cuban national, except as follows:
(1) License exceptions. You may export or reexport without a license if your transaction meets all the applicable terms and conditions of any of the following License Exceptions. To determine the scope and eligibility requirements, you will need to turn to the sections or specific paragraphs of part 740 of the EAR (License Exceptions). Read each License Exception carefully, as the provisions available for embargoed countries are generally narrow.
(i) Temporary exports and reexports (TMP) by the news media (see § 740.9(a)(9) of the EAR).
(ii) Operation technology and software (TSU) for legally exported commodities or software (see § 740.13(a) of the EAR).
(iii) Sales technology (TSU) (see § 740.13(b) of the EAR).
(iv) Software updates (TSU) for legally exported software (see § 740.13(c) of the EAR).
(v) Parts (RPL) for one-for-one replacement in certain legally exported commodities (see § 740.10(a) of the EAR).
(vi) Baggage (BAG) (see § 740.14 of the EAR).
(vii) Governments and international organizations (GOV) (see § 740.11 of the EAR).
(viii) Gift parcels and humanitarian donations (GFT) (see § 740.12 of the EAR).
(ix) Items in transit (TMP) from Canada through the U.S. (see § 740.9(b)(1)(iv) of the EAR).
(x) Aircraft, vessels and spacecraft (AVS) for certain aircraft on temporary sojourn; equipment and spare parts for permanent use on a vessel or aircraft, and ship and plane stores; vessels on temporary sojourn; or cargo transiting Cuba on aircraft or vessels on temporary sojourn (see § 740.15(a), (b), (d), and (e) of the EAR).
(xi) Permissive reexports of certain spare parts in foreign-made equipment (see § 740.16(h) of the EAR).
(xii) Exports of agricultural commodities, classified as EAR99, under License Exception Agricultural Commodities (AGR) and certain reexports of U.S. origin agricultural commodities, classified as EAR99, under License Exception AGR (see § 740.18 of the EAR).
(xiii) Commodities and software authorized under License Exception Consumer Communications Devices (CCD) (see § 740.19 of the EAR).
(xiv) License Exception Support for the Cuban People (SCP) (see § 740.21 of the EAR).
(2) Deemed exports and deemed reexports. A license is not required to release technology or source code subject to the EAR but not on the Commerce Control List (i.e., EAR99 technology or source code) to a Cuban national in the United States or a third country.
(b) Licensing policy. Items requiring a license are subject to a general policy of denial, except as follows:
(1) Medicines and Medical Devices. Applications to export medicines and medical devices as defined in part 772 of the EAR will generally be approved, except:
(i) To the extent restrictions would be permitted under section 5(m) of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (EAA), or section 203(b)(2) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act;
(ii) If there is a reasonable likelihood that the item to be exported will be used for purposes of torture or other human rights abuses;
(iii) If there is a reasonable likelihood that the item to be exported will be reexported;
(iv) If the item to be exported could be used in the production of any biotechnological product; or
(v) If it is determined that the United States government is unable to verify, by on-site inspection or other means, that the item to be exported will be used for the purpose for which it was intended and only for the use and benefit of the Cuban people, but this exception shall not apply to donations of medicines for humanitarian purposes to a nongovernmental organization in Cuba.
(2) Exports and reexports that generally will be approved. Applications for licenses to export or reexport the following generally will be approved:
(i) Telecommunications items that would improve communications to, from, and among the Cuban people;
(ii) Commodities and software to human rights organizations or to individuals and non-governmental organizations that promote independent activity intended to strengthen civil society in Cuba;
(iii) Commodities and software to U.S. news bureaus in Cuba whose primary purpose is the gathering and dissemination of news to the general public;
(iv) Agricultural items that are outside the scope of agricultural commodities as defined in part 772 of the EAR, such as insecticides, pesticides and herbicides, and agricultural commodities not eligible for License Exception AGR;
(v) Items necessary to ensure the safety of civil aviation and the safe operation of commercial aircraft engaged in international air transportation, excluding the export or reexport of such aircraft leased to state-owned enterprises; and
(vi) Items necessary for the environmental protection of U.S. and international air quality, waters, or coastlines (including items related to renewable energy or energy efficiency).
(3) Exports and reexports that may be authorized on a case-by-case basis. (i) Applications for licenses to export or reexport items to meet the needs of the Cuban people, including exports and reexports of such items to state-owned enterprises, agencies, and other organizations of the Cuban government that provide goods and services for the use and benefit of the Cuban people may be authorized on a case-by-case basis. This policy of case-by-case review includes applications for licenses to export or reexport items for:
(A) Agricultural production, artistic endeavors (including the creation of public content, historic and cultural works and preservation), education, food processing, disaster preparedness, relief and response, public health and sanitation, residential construction and renovation and public transportation;
(B) Wholesale and retail distribution for domestic consumption by the Cuban people;
(C) Construction of facilities for treating public water supplies, facilities for supplying electricity or other energy to the Cuban people, sports and recreation facilities, and other infrastructure that directly benefits the Cuban people; and
(D) Items that will enable or facilitate export from Cuba of items produced by the private sector.
Note 1 to paragraph (b)(3)(i): Licenses issued pursuant to the policy set forth in this paragraph generally will have a condition prohibiting both reexports from Cuba to any other destination and uses that enable or facilitate the export of goods or services from Cuba, that primarily generate revenue for the state.
Note 2 to paragraph (b)(3)(i): The policy of case-by-case review in this paragraph is intended to facilitate exports and reexports to meet the needs of the Cuban people. Accordingly, BIS generally will deny applications to export or reexport items for use by state-owned enterprises, agencies, and other organizations that primarily generate revenue for the state, including those engaged in tourism and those engaged in the extraction or production of minerals or other raw materials. Applications for export or reexport of items destined to the Cuban military, police, intelligence or security services also generally will be denied. Additionally, pursuant to section 3(a) of the National Security Presidential Memorandum on Strengthening the Policy of the United States Toward Cuba (NSPM), dated June 16, 2017, BIS generally will deny applications to export or reexport items for use by entities or subentities identified by the Department of State in the Federal Register or at https://www.state.gov/e/eb/tfs/spi/cuba/cubarestrictedlist/index.htm, unless such transactions are determined to be consistent with sections 2 and 3(a)(iii) of the NSPM.
(ii) [Reserved]
(4) Temporary sojourns of aircraft and vessels. Applications for exports or reexports of aircraft or vessels on temporary sojourn to Cuba, other than aircraft operated by certificated air carriers or cargo vessels for hire, are subject to a general policy of denial unless consistent with the foreign policy or national security interests of the United States. Applications for exports or reexports of aircraft operated by certificated air carriers or cargo vessels for hire on temporary sojourn to Cuba may be authorized on a case-by-case basis.
Note 1 to paragraph (b)(4): Applications for exports or reexports of private and corporate aircraft, cruise ships, sailboats, fishing vessels, and other similar aircraft and vessels on temporary sojourn to Cuba will generally be denied.
(c) Definitions. For purposes of this section, “U.S. person” means any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, as described in § 515.329 of the Cuban Assets Control Regulations (31 CFR 515.329).
(d) Related controls. OFAC maintains controls on the activities of persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction, wherever located, involving transactions with Cuba or any Cuban national, as provided in 31 CFR part 515. Exporters and reexporters should consult with OFAC for further guidance on its related controls.
[61 FR 12802, Mar. 25, 1996]

Editorial Note:

For Federal Register citations affecting § 746.2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.govinfo.gov.

§ 746.3 Iraq.

Pursuant to United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Resolutions 1483 and 1546 and other relevant resolutions, the United Nations maintains an embargo on the sale or supply to Iraq of arms and related materiel and their means of production, except items required by the Government of Iraq to serve the purposes of Resolution 1546. UNSC Resolutions 707 and 687 require that Iraq eliminate its nuclear weapons program and restrict its nuclear activities to the use of isotopes for medical, industrial or agricultural purposes. Such resolutions further mandate that Iraq eliminate its chemical and biological weapons programs as well as its ballistic missile program. In support of the applicable UNSC resolutions, certain Iraq specific license requirements and licensing policies are detailed in this section. In addition, this section details restrictions on transfers of items subject to the EAR within Iraq. Exporters should be aware that other provisions of the EAR, including parts 742 and 744, will continue to apply with respect to exports and reexports to Iraq and transfers within Iraq.
(a) License requirements. (1) A license is required for the export or reexport to Iraq or transfer within Iraq of any item controlled on the Commerce Control List for NS, MT, NP, CW, CB, RS, CC, EI, SI, or SL reasons. See part 742 of the EAR.
(2) A license is required for the export or reexport to Iraq or transfer within Iraq of any item controlled on the Commerce Control List for UN reasons.
(3) A license is required for the export or reexport to Iraq or transfer within Iraq of items on the Commerce Control List controlled for RS reasons under the following ECCNs: 0B999, 0D999, 1B999, 1C992, 1C995, 1C997, 1C999 and 6A992.
(4) A license is required for the export or reexport to Iraq or transfer within Iraq of any item subject to the EAR if, at the time of the export, reexport or transfer, you know, have reason to know, or are informed by BIS that the item will be, or is intended to be, used for a “military end-use” or by a “military end-user”, as defined in this section. This license requirement does not apply to exports, reexports or transfers of items for the official use by personnel and agencies of the U.S. Government or exports, reexports or transfers to the Government of Iraq. See § 740.11(b)(3) of the EAR for the definition of “agency of the U.S. Government.” BIS may inform an exporter, reexporter, or other person, either individually by specific notice or through amendment to the EAR, that a license is required for export, reexport or transfer of items subject to the EAR to specified end-users, because BIS has determined that there is an unacceptable risk of diversion to the uses or users described in this paragraph. Specific notice is to be given only by, or at the direction of, the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. When such notice is provided orally, it will be followed by a written notice within two working days signed by the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. The absence of any such notification does not excuse the exporter, reexporter or other person from compliance with the license requirements of this paragraph.
(i) Military end-use. In this section, the phrase “military end-use” means incorporation into a military item described on the U.S. Munitions List (USML) (22 CFR part 121, International Traffic in Arms Regulations) or the Wassenaar Arrangement Munitions List (WAML) (as set out on the Wassenaar Arrangement website at http://www.wassenaar.org); or use, development, or deployment of military items described on the USML or the WAML.
(ii) Military end-user. In this section, the term “military end-user” means any “person” whose actions or functions are intended to support “military end-uses” as defined in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section and who is not recognized as a legitimate military organization by the U.S. Government.
(5) Definitions. For purposes of exports or reexports to Iraq or transfers within Iraq, “ballistic missile” is defined as any missile capable of a range greater than 150 kilometers.
(b) Licensing policy. (1) License applications for the export or reexport to Iraq or transfer within Iraq of items listed in paragraph (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section for Iraqi civil nuclear or military nuclear activity, except for use of isotopes for medical, industrial or agricultural purposes, will be subject to a policy of denial.
(2) License applications for the export or reexport to Iraq or transfer within Iraq of machine tools controlled for national security (NS) or nuclear nonproliferation (NP) reasons, as well as for any items controlled for crime control (CC) or United Nations (UN) reasons (including items classified under ECCN 0A505.c) or ECCNs that end in the number “018” or items classified under “600 series” ECCNs, that would make a material contribution to the production, research, design, development, support, maintenance or manufacture of Iraqi weapons of mass destruction, ballistic missiles or arms and related materiel will be subject to a general policy of denial. Exports of “600 series” items to the Government of Iraq will be reviewed under the policies set forth for such items in §§ 742.4(b) and 742.6(b) of the EAR.
(3) License applications for the export or reexport to Iraq or transfer within Iraq of items listed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis to determine if they would contribute to the building of Iraqi civil infrastructure. Applications determined not to contribute to the building of Iraqi civil infrastructure will be subject to a general policy of denial.
(4) License applications for the export or reexport to Iraq or transfer within Iraq of items listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section will be subject to a policy of denial.
(c) License exceptions. You may export or reexport without a license if your transaction meets all the requirements of any of the following License Exceptions: CIV, APP, TMP, RPL, GOV, GFT, TSU, BAG, AVS, or ENC. For specific requirements of each of these License Exceptions, refer to part 740 of the EAR. Notwithstanding the above, this paragraph may not be applied to exports or reexports that require a license under paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(d) Related State Department controls. The Department of State, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, maintains controls on arms and military equipment to Iraq under the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (22 CFR parts 120 through 130).
(e) Transition for licenses issued by the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control. Prior to July 30, 2004, the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) exercised primary licensing jurisdiction for transactions with Iraq, as provided in 31 CFR part 575. This section establishes a validity period for licenses issued by OFAC for exports or reexports to Iraq.
(1) Validity period. Licenses issued by OFAC for the export or reexport of items that require a license to Iraq under the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) shall continue to be valid under the EAR. For those licenses with specified expiration dates, such dates will continue to apply. Licenses without specified expiration dates will be valid through July 30, 2005. The recordkeeping requirements applicable to exports and reexports of items pursuant to licenses issued by OFAC are described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
Note to paragraph (e)(1): Persons that have been authorized by OFAC to export or reexport items that are subject to the export control jurisdiction of other agencies must consult with OFAC and the other relevant agencies with regard to the expiration date of the authorization granted by OFAC.
(2) Reexports or transfers. Items subject to a license requirement under the EAR for export or reexport to Iraq as of July 30, 2004, that were previously exported or reexported to Iraq under a specific license granted by OFAC:
(i) May not be transferred within Iraq to a new end-user without a license from BIS,
(ii) May be reexported to the United States without a license,
(iii) May be reexported to third countries subject to the license requirements for the destination, end-use or end-user set forth elsewhere in the EAR.
(3) Recordkeeping requirement. Persons in receipt of a specific license granted by OFAC described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section must maintain a record of those items exported or reexported to Iraq pursuant to such specific license and record when the items are consumed or destroyed in the normal course of their use in Iraq, reexported to a third country not requiring further authorization from BIS, or returned to the United States. This requirement applies only to items subject to a license requirement under the EAR for export to Iraq as of July 30, 2004. These records must be maintained in accordance with recordkeeping requirements set forth in part 762 of the EAR and must include the following information:
(i) Date of export or reexport and related details (including means of transport);
(ii) Description of items (including ECCN) and value of items in U.S. Dollars;
(iii) Description of proposed end-use and locations in Iraq where items are intended to be used;
(iv) Parties other than specific OFAC licensee who may be given temporary access to the items; and
(v) Date of consumption or destruction, if the items are consumed or destroyed in the normal course of their use in Iraq, or the date of reexport to a third country not requiring further authorization from BIS, or return to the United States.
(f) License Requirements for certain transfers within Iraq of items subject to the EAR—(1) Licensed items. A license is required for the transfer within Iraq of any item subject to the EAR exported or reexported pursuant to a specific license issued by the Department of the Treasury or a Department of Commerce specific license or License Exception.
(2) Other items. (i) A license is required for the transfer within Iraq of any item subject to the EAR, if, at the time of the transfer, you know, have reason to know, or are informed by BIS that the item will be used in the design, development, production or use of weapons of mass destruction or the means of their delivery, as set forth in part 744 of the EAR.
(ii) A license is required for the transfer within Iraq to designated terrorists or terrorist organizations, as set forth in § 744.12, § 744.13, or § 744.14 of the EAR.
[69 FR 46077, July 30, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 20886, Apr. 24, 2006; 71 FR 51718, Aug. 31, 2006; 71 FR 67036, Nov. 20, 2006; 73 FR 57509, Oct. 3, 2008; 78 FR 22723, Apr. 16, 2013; 79 FR 32625, June 5, 2014; 85 FR 4177, Jan. 23, 2020]

§ 746.4 North Korea.

(a) Licensing requirements. As authorized by section 6 of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended, and consistent with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1718, a license is required to export or reexport any item subject to the EAR (see part 734 of the EAR) to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (North Korea), except food and medicines classified as EAR99 (definitions in part 772 of the EAR). Portions of certain license exceptions, set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, may be available. Exporters should be aware that other provisions of the EAR, including parts 742 and 744, also apply to exports and reexports to North Korea.
(b) Licensing policy. Items requiring a license are subject to case-by-case review, except as follows:
(1) Luxury goods. Applications to export or reexport luxury goods, e.g., luxury automobiles; yachts; gems; jewelry; other fashion accessories; cosmetics; perfumes; furs; designer clothing; luxury watches; rugs and tapestries; electronic entertainment software and equipment; recreational sports equipment; tobacco; wine and other alcoholic beverages; musical instruments; art; and antiques and collectible items, including but not limited to rare coins and stamps are subject to a general policy of denial. For further information on luxury goods, see supplement no. 1 to part 746.
(2) Applications to export or reexport arms and related materiel are subject to a general policy of denial. In addition, applications to export or reexport items specified by UN documents S/2006/814, S/2006/815 and S/2006/853 and other items that the UN Security Council or the Sanctions Committee established pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution 1718 has determined could contribute to North Korea's nuclear-related, ballistic missile-related or other weapons of mass destruction-related programs are also subject to a general policy of denial.
(3) Applications to export or reexport items controlled for NP and MT reasons (except ECCN 7A103 items) are subject to a general policy of denial.
(4) Applications to export or reexport humanitarian items (e.g., blankets, basic footwear, heating oil, and other items meeting subsistence needs) intended for the benefit of the North Korean people; items in support of United Nations humanitarian efforts; and agricultural commodities or medical devices items that are determined by BIS, in consultation with the interagency license review community, not to be luxury goods are subject to a general policy of approval.
(5) Other items on the CCL. See Section 742.19(b) of the EAR.
(c) License exceptions. You may export or reexport without a license if your transaction meets all the applicable terms and conditions of any of the license exception subsections specified in this paragraph. To determine scope and eligibility requirements, you will need to refer to the sections or specific paragraphs of part 740 (License Exceptions). Read each license exception carefully, as the provisions available for countries subject to sanctions are generally narrow.
(1) TMP for items for use by the news media as set forth in § 740.9(a)(9) of the EAR.
(2) GOV for items for personal or official use by personnel and agencies of the U.S. Government, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), or the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) as set forth in § 740.11(a), (b)(2) of the EAR.
(3) GFT, except that GFT is not available to export or reexport luxury goods as described in this section to North Korea.
(4) TSU for operation technology and software for lawfully exported commodities as set forth in § 740.13(a) and sales technology as set forth in § 740.13 (b) of the EAR.
(5) BAG for exports of items by individuals leaving the United States as personal baggage as set forth in § 740.14(a) through (d) of the EAR.
(6) AVS for civil aircraft as set forth in § 740.15(a)(4) of the EAR.
(d) The Secretary of State has designated North Korea as a country the government of which has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism. For anti-terrorism controls, see Section 742.19 of the EAR.
(e) OFAC maintains controls on certain transactions involving persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction and North Korean entities or any specially designated North Korean national.
[72 FR 3725, Jan. 26, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 20223, Apr. 24, 2007; 79 FR 32625, June 5, 2014]

§ 746.5 [Reserved]

§ 746.6 Temporarily occupied Crimea region of Ukraine and covered regions of Ukraine.

(a) License requirements—(1) General prohibition—Temporarily Occupied Crimea Region of Ukraine. (i) A license is required to export or reexport to or transfer within the temporarily occupied Crimea region of Ukraine any item subject to the EAR other than food and medicine designated as EAR99, or 'software necessary to enable the exchange of personal communications over the Internet'; and
(ii) Except as described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, a license is required to reexport, export from abroad, or transfer (in-country) to any destination any foreign-produced item subject to the EAR under the Russia/Belarus/Temporarily occupied Crimea region of Ukraine FDP rule described in § 734.9(f) of the EAR.
(2) General prohibition—Donetsk People's Republic (DNR) and Luhansk People's Republic (LNR). A license is required to export or reexport to, or transfer within, the so-called DNR or LNR regions of Ukraine any item subject to the EAR other than: Food and medicine designated as EAR99, or 'software necessary to enable the exchange of personal communications over the internet'.
(3) Deemed exports or reexports. For purposes of applying the EAR deemed export and deemed reexport requirements pursuant to the general prohibitions described in this paragraph (a)(3), the nationality of the foreign national (as determined by accepted methods, such as looking to the passport or other nationality document(s) recognized by the United States Government) is what is used for purposes of determining whether a license is required for a deemed export or deemed reexport.
(4) Exclusion from license requirements under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section. The countries listed in supplement No. 3 to this part have committed to implementing substantially similar export controls on Russia and Belarus under their domestic laws. Therefore, exports or reexports from the countries listed in supplement No. 3 to this part or transfers (in-country) within the countries listed in this supplement are not subject to the license requirements described in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) of this section, unless a limit to the exclusion is described in the Scope column in supplement no. 3 to this part.
(5) Exclusion for deployments by the Government of Ukraine to or within the temporarily occupied Crimea region of Ukraine or covered regions of Ukraine. The license requirements of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to exports, reexports, and transfers (in country) used in or for deployments by the Government of Ukraine to or within the temporarily occupied Crimea region of Ukraine or covered regions of Ukraine.
(b) License review policy. With limited exceptions, applications for the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of any item that requires a license pursuant to the requirements of this section will be reviewed with a policy of denial. The following types of license applications for licenses required under paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis: applications related to safety of flight; applications related to maritime safety; applications for civil nuclear safety; applications to meet humanitarian needs; applications that support government space cooperation; applications for items destined to wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries, foreign subsidiaries of U.S. companies that are joint ventures with other U.S. companies, joint ventures of U.S. companies with companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR, the wholly-owned subsidiaries of companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement no. 1 to part 740, joint ventures of companies headquartered in Country Groups A:5 and A:6 with other companies headquartered in Country Groups A:5 and A:6; applications for companies headquartered in the United States or in Country Groups A:5 and A:6 to support civil telecommunications infrastructure; and government-to-government activities. In reviewing such applications, whether the transaction in question would benefit the Russian or Belarusian government or defense sector or would otherwise be detrimental to the country or people of Ukraine are factors that will be taken into consideration.
(c) License exceptions. You may export, reexport or transfer (in-country) without a license if your transaction meets all the applicable terms and conditions of any of the license exception paragraphs specified in this paragraph (c). To determine scope and eligibility requirements, you will need to refer to the sections or specific paragraphs of part 740 (License Exceptions) of the EAR, as well as § 740.2 license exception restrictions. Read each license exception carefully, as the provisions available for countries subject to sanctions are generally narrow.
(1) TMP for items for use by the news media as set forth in § 740.9(a)(9) of the EAR.
(2) GOV for items for personal or official use by personnel and agencies of the U.S. Government, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), or the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) as set forth in § 740.11(a) and (b)(2) of the EAR.
(3) GFT for gift parcels and humanitarian donations as set forth in § 740.12 of the EAR.
(4) TSU for operation technology and software for lawfully exported commodities as set forth in § 740.13(a) and sales technology as set forth in § 740.13 (b) of the EAR.
(5) BAG for exports of items by individuals leaving the United States as personal baggage as set forth in § 740.14(a) through (d) of the EAR.
(6) AVS for civil aircraft and vessels as set forth in § 740.15(a)(4) and (d) of the EAR.
(7) License Exception MED (§ 740.23 of the EAR).
(d) Definitions. For purpose of this section, use the following definitions of terms:
(1) 'Crimea region of Ukraine' includes the land territory in that region as well as any maritime area over which sovereignty, sovereign rights, or jurisdiction is claimed based on occupation of that land territory.
(2) 'Donetsk People's Republic (DNR) region' or 'Luhansk People's Republic (LNR) region' include the land territory in those regions as well as any maritime area over which sovereignty, sovereign rights, or jurisdiction is claimed based on purported sovereignty over that land territory or area.
(3) 'Software necessary to enable the exchange of personal communications over the internet' includes only software (such as software for instant messaging, chat and email, social networking, sharing of photos and movies, Web browsing, and blogging), designated EAR99 or classified as mass market software under Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) 5D992.c of the EAR, provided that such software is widely available to the public at no cost to the user.
[87 FR 12248, Mar. 3, 2022, as amended at 87 FR 34152, June 6, 2022; 88 FR 33429, May 23, 2023; 89 FR 4811, Jan. 25, 2024; 89 FR 33228, Apr. 29, 2024]

§ 746.7 Iran.

The Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) administers a comprehensive trade and investment embargo against Iran. This embargo includes prohibitions on exports and certain reexport transactions involving Iran, including transactions dealing with items subject to the EAR. These prohibitions are set forth in OFAC's Iranian Transactions Regulations (31 CFR part 560). In addition, BIS maintains licensing requirements on exports and reexports to or from Iran under the EAR as described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section or elsewhere in the EAR (see, e.g., § 742.8).
(a) License requirements—(1) EAR license requirements—(i) CCL-based license requirements. A license is required under the EAR to export or reexport to Iran any item on the CCL containing a CB Column 1, CB Column 2, CB Column 3, NP Column 1, NP Column 2, NS Column 1, NS Column 2, MT Column 1, RS Column 1, RS Column 2, CC Column 1, CC Column 2, CC Column 3, AT Column 1 or AT Column 2 in the Country Chart Column of the License Requirements section of an ECCN or classified under ECCNs 0A503, 0A980, 0A982, 0A983, 0E982, 1C355, 1C395, 1C980, 1C982, 1C983, 1C984, 2A994, 2D994, 2E994, 5A001.f.1, 5A980, 5D001 (for 5A001.f.1or for 5E001.a (for 5A001.f.1, or for 5D001.a (for 5A001.f.1)), 5D980, 5E001.a (for 5A001.f.1, or for 5D001.a (for 5A001.f.1)) or 5E980.
(ii) Supplement no. 7 to part 746 of the EAR license requirements. A license is required under the EAR to export or reexport to Iran any item identified in supplement no. 7 to part 746 of the EAR when such item is subject to the EAR for any reason other than § 734.9(j) of the EAR.
(iii) Foreign-produced items subject to the EAR under § 734.9(j) of the EAR (Iran FDP rule). Except as described in paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section, a license is required to reexport or export from abroad to, or transfer (in-country) within Iran any foreign-produced item subject to the EAR under the Iran FDP rule that is located in or destined to Iran. A Department of Commerce license is not required for transactions described in this paragraph (a)(1)(iii) that would have otherwise met all of the terms and conditions of an OFAC general license or other authorization if the transactions had been subject to OFAC jurisdiction.
(iv) Exclusion from license requirements under paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section. (A) Exports from abroad or reexports from the countries described in supplement no. 3 to this part are not subject to the license requirements described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, unless a limit to the exclusion is described in the “Scope” column in supplement no. 3 to this part.
(B) An item is excluded from license requirements under paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section if the item is any of the following:
(1) Food, “medicine,” or “medical devices” designated as EAR99;
(2) Necessary and ordinarily incident to communications, designated as EAR99 or specified in ECCN 5A992.c or 5D992.c, and classified in accordance with § 740.17 of the EAR; and would otherwise meet all of the terms and conditions of an OFAC general license or other authorization if the transaction were subject to OFAC jurisdiction.
(v) Exclusion from scope of U.S.-origin controlled content under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. For purposes of determining U.S.-origin controlled content under supplement no. 2 to part 734 of the EAR when making a de minimis calculation for reexports and exports from a country described in supplement no. 3 to this part to Iran, the license requirements in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section are not used to determine controlled U.S.-origin content in a foreign-made item, provided the U.S.-origin content is identified in supplement no. 7 to this part and is designated EAR99 and is not otherwise excluded from the applicable “Scope” column in supplement no. 3 to this part.
(2) BIS authorization. To avoid duplication, exporters or reexporters are not required to seek separate authorization from BIS for an export or reexport subject both to the EAR and to OFAC's Iranian Transactions Regulations. Therefore, if OFAC authorizes an export or reexport, such authorization is considered authorization for purposes of the EAR as well. Transactions that are not subject to OFAC regulatory authority may require BIS authorization.
(b) Licensing policy. Applications for licenses for transactions for humanitarian reasons or for the safety of civil aviation and safe operation of U.S-origin aircraft will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Licenses for other purposes generally will be denied.
(c) License exceptions. No license exceptions may be used for exports or reexports to Iran.
(d) EAR anti-terrorism controls. The Secretary of State has designated Iran as a country that has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism. Anti-terrorism license requirements and licensing policy regarding Iran are set forth in § 742.8 of the EAR.
(e) Prohibition on exporting or reexporting EAR items without required OFAC authorization. No person may export or reexport any item that is subject to the EAR if such transaction is prohibited by the Iranian Transactions Regulations (31 CFR part 560) and not authorized by OFAC. The prohibition of this paragraph (e) applies whether or not the EAR requires a license for the export or reexport.
[74 FR 2358, Jan. 15, 2009, as amended at 77 FR 39369, July 2, 2012; 78 FR 37383, June 20, 2013; 81 FR 29486, May 12, 2016; 85 FR 4177, Jan. 23, 2020; 88 FR 12154, Feb. 27, 2023; 89 FR 60565, July 26, 2024]

§ 746.8 Sanctions against Russia and Belarus.

(a) License requirements. Except as described in the exclusions in paragraph (a)(12), and in addition to license requirements specified on the Commerce Control List (CCL) in supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR and in other provisions of the EAR, including part 744 and other sections of part 746, a license is required as specified under paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section. These license requirements follow an order of review, which provides guidance on the relationship between the different license requirements and which ones take precedence for certain items. For purposes of paragraphs (a)(5) through (7) of this section, a license is not required for any item that is listed in supplement nos. 4, 5 or 6 to this part that is also classified under an Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) on the Commerce Control List (CCL) in supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR. See paragraph (a)(1) of this section and part 742 for license requirements for exports, reexports, and transfers to or within Russia or Belarus for items classified in ECCNs, as well as part 744 for end-use and end-user controls that may apply to your transaction. Paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, are also used for determining license requirements for exports, reexports, and transfers to or within Russia or Belarus of any item that is listed in supplement nos. 4, 5, or 6 to this part and is classified in an ECCN on the CCL in supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR. License requirements in paragraph (a)(4) of this section that apply to exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) involved in certain end uses should be reviewed only after license requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) and (5) through (8) of this section are reviewed.
(1) Items classified in any ECCN on the CCL. A license is required to export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) to or within Russia or Belarus any item subject to the EAR and specified in any Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) on the CCL.
(2) Russia/Belarus/Temporarily occupied Crimea region of Ukraine foreign “direct product” (FDP) rule. A license is required to reexport, export from abroad, or transfer (in-country) to any destination any foreign-produced item subject to the EAR under the Russia/Belarus/Temporarily occupied Crimea region of Ukraine under the FDP rule described in § 734.9(f) of the EAR.
(3) Russia/Belarus-Military End User and Procurement FDP rule. A license is required to reexport, export from abroad, or transfer (in-country) to or within any destination or to any end user or party any foreign-produced item subject to the EAR under § 734.9(g) of the EAR.
(4) Oil and Gas—(i) Certain exploration or production of oil or gas. A license is required to export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) any item subject to the EAR listed in supplement no. 2 to this part and items specified in ECCNs 0A998, 1C992, 3A229, 3A231, 3A232, 6A991, 8A992, and 8D999 when you “know” that the item will be used directly or indirectly in exploration for, or production of, oil or gas in Russian deepwater (greater than 500 feet) or Arctic offshore locations or shale formations in Russia or Belarus, or are unable to determine whether the item will be used in such projects. Such items include, but are not limited to, drilling rigs, parts for horizontal drilling, drilling and completion equipment, subsea processing equipment, Arctic-capable marine equipment, wireline and down hole motors and equipment, drill pipe and casing, software for hydraulic fracturing, high pressure pumps, seismic acquisition equipment, remotely operated vehicles, compressors, expanders, valves, and risers.
(ii) Additional prohibition on those informed by BIS. BIS may inform persons, either individually by specific notice or through amendment to the EAR, that a license is required for a specific export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) or for the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of specified items to a certain end-user or end-use, because there is an unacceptable risk of use in, or diversion to, the activities specified in this section in Russia or Belarus. Specific notice is to be given only by, or at the direction of, the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Strategic Trade and Technology Security or the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Strategic Trade. When such notice is provided orally, it will be followed by a written notice within two working days signed by either the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Strategic Trade and Technology Security or the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Strategic Trade. However, the absence of any such notification does not excuse persons from compliance with the license requirements of this section.
(5) Industrial Goods. A license is required to export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) any item subject to the EAR listed in supplement no. 4 to this part to or within Russia or Belarus.
(6) Itemized Items. A license is required to export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) any item subject to the EAR listed in supplement no. 6 to this part to or within Russia or Belarus.
(7) 'Luxury goods.' A license is required to export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) any item subject to the EAR listed in supplement no. 5 to this part to or within Russia or Belarus.
Note 2 to paragraph (a)(7): For purposes of paragraph (a)(7) of this section, a 'luxury good' means any item that is identified in supplement no. 5 to this part.
(8) EAR99 designated software. (i) A license is required to export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) to or within Russia or Belarus any “software” subject to the EAR and described in paragraph (a)(8)(ii) of this section.
(ii) The following types of software subject to the EAR are in the scope of paragraph (a)(8): Enterprise resource planning (ERP); customer relationship management (CRM); business intelligence (BI); supply chain management (SCM); enterprise data warehouse (EDW); computerized maintenance management system (CMMS); project management software, product lifecycle management (PLM); building information modelling (BIM); computer aided design (CAD); computer-aided manufacturing (CAM); engineering to order (ETO); and software for the operation of computer numerical control (CNC) machine tools. The scope of paragraph (a)(8) also includes software updates for software identified in this paragraph that are subject to the EAR and designated as EAR99.
(9)-(11) [Reserved]
(12) Exclusions from license requirements and scope of U.S.-origin controlled content. Paragraphs (a)(12)(i), (ii), and (iii)(A) of this section exclude certain exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) from the scope of the license requirements of this section. Paragraph (a)(12)(iii)(B) excludes certain items from the scope of U.S.-origin content for purposes of de minimis calculations from certain destinations.
(i) Deemed exports and deemed reexports. The license requirements in paragraph (a) do not apply to deemed exports or reexports. However, the exclusion for deemed exports and deemed reexports is limited to the license requirements specified only in this section of the EAR. Any deemed export or deemed reexport to a Russian or Belarusian national must be made in accordance with all other applicable EAR license requirements, such as CCL-based license requirements. For example, the release of NS1 controlled technology to a Russian or Belarusian national in the United States or in a third country would require a CCL-based deemed export or deemed reexport license (as applicable). Consequently, authorization (in the form of a deemed export or deemed reexport license, or license exception eligibility) would be required under the EAR notwithstanding the exclusion in this paragraph (b).
(ii) Mass market encryption commodities and software, and software designated EAR99. Commodities specified under ECCN 5A991, and commodities and software classified under ECCNs 5A992.c or 5D992.c that have been 'classified in accordance with § 740.17,' as well as software designated EAR99 and identified in paragraph (a)(8)(ii) of this section do not require a license to export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) to or within Russia or Belarus for the following civil end-users:
(A) Wholly owned U.S. subsidiaries, branches, or sales offices;
(B) Joint ventures between two or more U.S. companies, including the wholly owned subsidiaries, branches, or sales offices of such joint ventures;
(C) Joint ventures between U.S. companies and companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR, including the wholly owned subsidiaries, branches, or sales offices of such joint ventures;
(D) Wholly owned subsidiaries, branches, or sales offices of companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement no. 1 to part 740;
(E) Joint ventures between two or more companies headquartered in Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement no. 1 to part 740, including the wholly owned subsidiaries, branches, or sales offices of such joint ventures; or
(F) For official business of diplomatic or consular missions of the governments of Country Group A:5 and A:6 destinations.
(iii) Global Export Control Coalition (GECC). The countries listed in supplement no. 3 to this part have committed to implementing substantially similar export controls on Russia, Belarus, and the temporarily occupied Crimea region of Ukraine under their domestic laws. Therefore, exports or reexports from the countries listed in supplement no. 3 to this part or transfers (in-country) within the countries listed in this supplement are not subject to the following license requirements in paragraph (a) of this section unless a limit to the exclusion is described in the Scope column in supplement no. 3 to this part:
(A) Foreign direct product rules. The license requirement described in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section;
(B) De minimis. For purposes of determining U.S.-origin controlled content under supplement no. 2 to part 734 of the EAR, when making a de minimis calculation for reexports and exports from abroad to Russia or Belarus, the license requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(4) through (7) of this section are not used to determine controlled U.S.-origin content in a foreign-made item, provided the criteria of paragraphs (a)(12)(B)(1) and (2) of this section are met:
(1) The U.S.-origin content is described in an Anti-Terrorism (AT)-only ECCN or is designated EAR99. For purposes of this paragraph, AT-only items mean any ECCN that only specifies either only AT in the reason for control paragraph of the ECCN or is classified under ECCN 9A991; and
(2) The foreign made item will be reexported or exported from abroad from a destination described in supplement no. 3 to this part.
(iv) Software designated EAR99. Software that is subject to the EAR and designated EAR99 is excluded from the license requirement in paragraph (a)(8) when destined to entities engaged exclusively in the agriculture or medical industries.
(b) Licensing policy. (1) License applications required under paragraph (a)(3) of this section will be reviewed under a policy of denial in all cases.
(2) Applications for the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of any item pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section that require a license for Russia or Belarus will be reviewed under a policy of denial when for use directly or indirectly for exploration or production from deepwater (greater than 500 feet), Arctic offshore, or shale projects in Russia or Belarus that have the potential to produce oil or gas.
(3) Applications for the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of any item pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (a)(5) through (8) of this section will be reviewed under a policy of denial. However, the following types of license applications submitted pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (4) through (8) will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis to determine whether the transaction in question would benefit the Russian or Belarusian government or defense sector:
(i) Applications for export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of items that may be necessary for health and safety reasons, including the safety of flight, maritime safety, and civil nuclear safety;
(ii) Applications for the disposition of items by companies not headquartered in Country Group D:1, D:5, E:1, or E:2 in supplement no. 1 to part 740 that are winding down or closing all operations in Russia or Belarus;
(iii) Applications for items that meet humanitarian needs, including applications for items that are predominantly agricultural or medical in nature;
(iv) Applications for government-to-government activities or to support government space cooperation;
(v) Replacement licenses for exports and reexports to and transfers within Russia and Belarus of items described in HTS-6 Codes or items described in supplement no. 6 to part 746 that were added to the EAR and made subject to license requirements after the validation date of the BIS license.
(vi) Applications for items destined to:
(A) Wholly owned U.S. subsidiaries, branches, or sales offices;
(B) Foreign subsidiaries, branches, or sales offices of U.S. companies that are joint ventures with other U.S. companies;
(C) Joint ventures of U.S. companies with companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR;
(D) The wholly owned subsidiaries, branches, or sales offices of companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement no. 1 to part 740;
(E) Joint ventures of companies headquartered in Country Groups A:5 and A:6 with other companies headquartered in Country Groups A:5 and A:6; or
(F) For official business of governments of Country Group A:5 and A:6 destinations.
(vii) Applications for companies headquartered in Country Groups A:5 and A:6 to support civil telecommunications infrastructure.
Note 3 to paragraph (b): See also § 750.7(c)(1)(xi) of the EAR for the divesture of items within Russia or Belarus or the transfer of items within Russia or Belarus for the purpose of reexporting such items from Russia or Belarus. For purposes of § 750.7(c)(1)(xi), divesture means the action or process of selling off subsidiary business interests or investments involving items subject to the EAR.
(c) License exceptions. Consistent with § 740.2(b), BIS may revise, suspend, or revoke License Exception availability under this section consistent with U.S. national security and foreign policy interests, including on a case-by-case basis, to prevent Russian or Belarusian persons from circumventing the restrictions in this section.
(1) No license exceptions may overcome the license requirements in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, except as specified in the entry for a Footnote 3 entity on the Entity List in supplement no. 4 to part 744 of the EAR.
(2) No license exceptions may overcome the license requirements in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (4) through (8) of this section except the following:
(i) License Exception TMP for items for use by the news media as set forth in § 740.9(a)(9) of the EAR.
(ii) License Exception GOV (§ 740.11(b) of the EAR) may overcome the license requirements in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (4) through (7) of this section. License Exception GOV under (§ 740.11(e) of the EAR) may overcome the license requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section for ECCN 9A004.
(iii) License Exception TSU for software updates for civil end-users that are wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries, branches, or sales offices; foreign subsidiaries, branches, or sales offices of U.S. companies that are joint ventures with other U.S. companies; joint ventures of U.S. companies with companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR countries; the wholly-owned subsidiaries, branches, or sales offices of companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement no. 1 to part 740; or joint ventures of companies headquartered in Country Group A:5 and A:6 with other companies headquartered in Country Groups A:5 and A:6 (§ 740.13(c) of the EAR).
(iv) License Exception BAG, excluding firearms and ammunition (§ 740.14, excluding paragraph (e), of the EAR).
(v) License Exception AVS, excluding any aircraft registered in, owned or controlled by, or under charter or lease by Russia or Belarus or a national of Russia or Belarus (§ 740.15(a) and (b) of the EAR).
(vi) License Exception Encryption commodities, software, and technology (ENC) for civil end-users that are wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries, branches, or sales offices; foreign subsidiaries, branches, or sales offices of U.S. companies that are joint ventures with other U.S. companies; joint ventures of U.S. companies with companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR countries; the wholly-owned subsidiaries, branches, or sales offices of companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement no. 1 to part 740; joint ventures of companies headquartered in Country Group A:5 and A:6 with other companies headquartered in Country Groups A:5 and A:6; or for official business of diplomatic or consular missions of the governments of Country Group A:5 and A:6 destinations (§§ 740.13(c) and 740.17 of the EAR).
(vii) License Exception CCD (§ 740.19 of the EAR).
(viii) License Exception MED (§ 740.23 of the EAR).
(d) License Applications. License applications submitted to BIS under this section may include the phrase “§ 746.8” and identify the paragraph (a) license requirement(s) from this section that are applicable. You should include a description such as “paragraph (a)(1) or any of the other paragraph (a) paragraphs that may be applicable to a license application” in Block 9 (Special Purpose) of your license application as described in supplement no. 1 to part 748 of the EAR.
[89 FR 51662, June 18, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 68543, Aug. 27, 2024; 89 FR 51664, June 18, 2024; 89 FR 68543, Aug. 27, 2024; 89 FR 84777, Oct. 23, 2024; 89 FR 87282, Nov. 1, 2024]

§ 746.9 Syria.

(a) License requirements. A license is required for the export or reexport to Syria of all items subject to the EAR, except food and medicine classified as EAR99 (food and medicine are defined in part 772 of the EAR). A license is required for the deemed export and deemed reexport, as described in §§ 734.13(b) and 734.14(b) of the EAR, respectively, of any technology or source code on the Commerce Control List (CCL) to a Syrian foreign national. Deemed exports and deemed reexports to Syrian foreign nationals involving technology or source code subject to the EAR but not listed on the CCL do not require a license.
(b) License Exceptions. No License Exceptions to the license requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section are available for exports or reexports to Syria, except the following:
(1) SPP for the export or reexport of “EAR99” items pursuant to § 740.5;
(2) TMP for technology pursuant to the provisions in § 740.9(a)(3), containers pursuant to the provisions in § 740.9(a)(7), items for use by the news media pursuant to § 740.9(a)(9), exports to a U.S. person's foreign subsidiary, affiliate, or facility abroad pursuant to § 740.9(a)(10), and personal protective “equipment” pursuant to the provisions of § 740.9 (a)(11)(ii) of the EAR;
(3) RPL pursuant to the provisions of § 740.10(a) of the EAR, provided that such exports will not support the Syrian police, military, or intelligence sensitive end users or uses pursuant to supplement no. 2 to 742;
(4) GOV for exports or reexports under the United States Government authorization pursuant to § 740.11(b)(2), exports, reexports and transfers (in country) to “Cooperating Governments and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization” pursuant to the provisions of 740.11(c), and items for international inspections under the Chemical Weapons Convention pursuant to 740.11(d) of the EAR;
(5) TSU for operation technology and software, sales technology, and software updates pursuant to the terms in § 740.13(a), (b), (c), and (g) of the EAR;
(6) BAG for exports of personally-owned items by individuals leaving the United States as personal baggage pursuant to the terms of § 740.14(a) through (d) of the EAR;
(7) AVS for temporary exports of U.S.-registered civil aircraft and vessels and temporary reexports of U.S. and foreign-registered civil aircraft and vessels to Syria on temporary sojourn pursuant to the terms of § 740.15(a) through (d) of the EAR provided that such export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) will not support the Syrian police, military, or intelligence end-users or end uses pursuant to Supp 2 to 742; and
(8) CCD for the export or reexport of consumer communications devices pursuant to the provisions in § 740.19.
(c) Licensing policy—(1) Presumption of approval licensing policy for certain commercial end uses and to support the Syrian people. License applications for exports and reexports of items on the CCL to Syria will be reviewed under a presumption of approval review policy for commercial end uses that support economic and business development in Syria or that support the Syrian people, including through the improvement or maintenance of telecommunications, water supply and sanitation, power generation, aviation, or other civil services that support peace and prosperity in Syria without making a significant contribution to the military potential of Syria or the ability of Syria to support acts of international terrorism.
(2) Case-by-case licensing policy. License applications for exports and reexports of items on the CCL to Syria that are not described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis to determine whether the items will be used in a manner consistent with U.S. national security and foreign policy purposes, including to promote peace and prosperity in Syria.
Note 1 to paragraphs (c)(1) and (2): Items on the CCL will also be reviewed according to the license policies for the items set out in relevant sections of part 742 with the exception of items controlled for Anti-terrorism (AT). For AT items, see § 746.9(c). All end-use and end user controls set out in part 744 of the EAR will continue to apply.
[76 FR 77117, Dec. 12, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 43973, July 23, 2013; 79 FR 32625, June 5, 2014; 82 FR 61157, Dec. 27, 2017; 90 FR 42320, Sept. 2, 2025]

§ 746.10 [Reserved]

Supplement No. 1 to Part 746—Examples of Luxury Goods

The following further amplifies the illustrative list of luxury goods set forth in § 746.4(b)(1):
(a) Tobacco and tobacco products
(b) Luxury watches: Wrist, pocket, and others with a case of precious metal or of metal clad with precious metal
(c) Apparel and fashion items, as follows:
(1) Leather articles
(2) Silk articles
(3) Fur skins and artificial furs
(4) Fashion accessories: Leather travel goods, vanity cases, binocular and camera cases, handbags, wallets, designer fountain pens, silk scarves
(5) Cosmetics, including beauty and make-up
(6) Perfumes and toilet waters
(7) Designer clothing: Leather apparel and clothing accessories
(d) Decorative items, as follows:
(1) Rugs and tapestries
(2) Tableware of porcelain or bone china
(3) Items of lead crystal
(4) Works of art (including paintings, original sculptures and statuary), antiques (more than 100 years old), and collectible items, including rare coins and stamps
(e) Jewelry: Jewelry with pearls, gems, precious and semi-precious stones (including diamonds, sapphires, rubies, and emeralds), jewelry of precious metal or of metal clad with precious metal
(f) Electronic items, as follows:
(1) Flat-screen, plasma, or LCD panel televisions or other video monitors or receivers (including high-definition televisions), and any television larger than 29 inches; DVD players
(2) Personal digital assistants (PDAs)
(3) Personal digital music players
(4) Computer laptops
(g) Transportation items, as follows:
(1) Yachts and other aquatic recreational vehicles (such as personal watercraft)
(2) Luxury automobiles (and motor vehicles): Automobiles and other motor vehicles to transport people (other than public transport), including station wagons
(3) Racing cars, snowmobiles, and motorcycles
(4) Personal transportation devices (stand-up motorized scooters)
(h) Recreational items, as follows:
(1) Musical instruments
(2) Recreational sports equipment
(i) Alcoholic beverages: wine, beer, ales, and liquor
[72 FR 3726, Jan. 26, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 20223, Apr. 24, 2007]

Supplement No. 2 to Part 746—Russian and Belarusian Industry Sector Sanction List Pursuant to § 746.8(a)(4)

(a) The source for the Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS)-6 codes and descriptions in this list comes from the United States International Trade Commission (USITC's) Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (2023). The items described in supplement no. 2 to part 746 include any modified or designed “components,” “parts,” “accessories,” and “attachments” therefor regardless of the HTS Code or HTS Description of the “components,” “parts,” “accessories,” and “attachments,” apart from any “part” or minor “component” that is a fastener (e.g., screw, bolt, nut, nut plate, stud, insert, clip, rivet, pin), washer, spacer, insulator, grommet, bushing, spring, wire, or solder. The exclusion of fasteners from this control does not apply to fasteners that are designated under an HTS Code under this supplement. Although generally fasteners (e.g., screws, bolts, nuts, nut plates, studs, inserts, clips, rivets, pins), and washers, spacers, insulator, grommets, bushings, springs, wires, and solders are excluded from the scope of this supplement, certain part 744 license requirements for Russia and Belarus extend to all items “subject to the EAR,” and would therefore not exclude these items from the license requirements under that part (e.g., § 744.21 of the EAR and the Entity List license requirements, which in most cases extend to all items “subject to the EAR”). This supplement includes two columns consisting of the HTS Codes and HTS Descriptions to assist exporters, reexporters, and transferors in identifying the products in this supplement. For information on HTS codes in general, you may contact a local import specialist at U.S. Customs and Border Protection at the nearest port. HTS-6 codes 730424, 731100, 761300, 841350, 841360, 841382, 841392, 842139, 843049, 843139, 843143, 847989, and 870520 are listed in both this supplement and supplement no. 4 to this part, so exporters, reexporters, and transferors must comply with the license requirements under both § 746.8(a)(4) and (5) as applicable.
(b) The items identified in the HTS-6 Code column of this supplement are subject to the license requirement under § 746.8(a)(4). The other column—HTS Description—is intended to assist exporters with their Automated Export System (AES) filing responsibilities. The other column—HTS Description—is intended to assist exporters with their Automated Export System (AES) filing responsibilities. The license requirements apply to HTS Codes at the 8 and 10 digit level (HTS-8 and HTS-10 Codes, respectively) when such longer HTS codes begin with the HTS-6 Codes as their first 6 numbers.
HTS-6 code | HTS description
730411 | LINE PIPE FOR OIL AND GAS PIPELINES, OF STAINLESS STEEL.
730419 | LINE PIPE FOR OIL AND GAS PIPELINES, OF SEAMLESS IRON (OTHER THAN CAST IRON) OR STEEL, NES.
730422 | DRILL PIPE OF A KIND USED IN DRILLING FOR OIL OR GAS, OF STAINLESS STEEL.
730423 | DRILL PIPE OF A KIND USED IN DRILLING FOR OIL OR GAS, OF IRON (EXCEPT CAST IRON) OR STEEL. NES.
730424 | CASING & TUBING USED IN DRILLING FOR OIL OR GAS, OTHER OF STAINLESS STEEL.
730429 | CASING AND TUBING OF A KIND USED IN DRILLING FOR OIL OR GAS, OF IRON (EXCEPT CAST IRON) OR STEEL.
730511 | LINE PIPE FOR OIL OR GAS PIPELINES, EXTERNAL DIAMETER OVER 406.4 MM (16 IN.), OF IRON OR STEEL, LONGITUDINALLY SUBMERGED ARC WELDED.
730512 | LINE PIPE FOR OIL OR GAS PIPELINES, EXTERNAL DIAMETER OVER 406.4 MM (16 IN.), OF IRON OR STEEL, LONGITUDINALLY WELDED NESOI.
730519 | LINE PIPE FOR OIL OR GAS PIPELINES, EXTERNAL DIAMETER OVER 406.4 MM (16 IN.), OF IRON OR STEEL, RIVETED OR SIMILARLY CLOSED NESOI.
730520 | CASING FOR OIL OR GAS DRILLING, EXTERNAL DIAMETER OVER 406.4 MM (16 IN.), OF IRON OR STEEL.
730611 | LINE PIPE FOR OIL OR GAS PIPELINES, WELDED, OF STAINLESS STEEL, NESOI.
730619 | LINE PIPE FOR OIL OR GAS PIPELINES, OF IRON OR STEEL, NESOI.
731100 | CONTAINERS FOR COMPRESSED OR LIQUEFIED GAS, OF IRON OR STEEL.
761300 | ALUMINUM CONTAINERS FOR COMPRESSED OR LIQUEFIED GAS.
820713 | ROCK DRILLING OR EARTH BORING TOOLS WITH WORKING PART OF CERMETS, AND PARTS THEREOF.
820719 | INTERCHANGEABLE TOOLS FOR HANDTOOLS, WHETHER OR NOT POWER-OPERATED, OR FOR MACHINE-TOOLS, INCLUDING ROCK DRILLING OR EARTH BORING TOOLS; BASE METL PARTS.
841350 | RECIPROCATING POSITIVE DISPLACEMENT PUMPS, NESOI.
841360 | ROTARY POSITIVE DISPLACEMENT PUMPS, NESOI.
841382 | LIQUID ELEVATORS.
841392 | PARTS OF LIQUID ELEVATORS.
842139 | FILTERING OR PURIFYING MACHINERY AND APPARATUS FOR GASES, NESOI.
843049 | BORING OR SINKING MACHINERY, NESOI, OTHER THAN SELF-PROPELLED.
843139 | PARTS FOR LIFTING, HANDLING, LOADING OR UNLOADING MACHINERY, NESOI.
843143 | PARTS FOR BORING OR SINKING MACHINERY, NESOI.
847989 | MACHINES AND MECHANICAL APPLIANCES HAVING INDIVIDUAL FUNCTIONS, NESOI.
870520 | MOBILE DRILLING DERRICKS.
870899 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR MOTOR VEHICLES, NESOI.
890520 | FLOATING OR SUBMERSIBLE DRILLING OR PRODUCTION PLATFORMS.
890590 | LIGHT VESSELS, FIRE FLOATS, FLOATING CRANES AND OTHER VESSELS WITH NAVIGABILITY NOT THE MAIN FUNCTION, NESOI; FLOATING DOCKS.
[88 FR 12182, Feb. 27, 2023, as amended at 88 FR 33430, May 23, 2023; 89 FR 4812, Jan. 25, 2024; 89 FR 51665, June 18, 2024]

Supplement No. 3 to Part 746—Countries Excluded from Certain License Requirements of §§ 746.6, 746.7, and 746.8

Countries listed in this supplement have committed to implementing substantially similar export controls on Russia and Belarus under their domestic laws and are consequently excluded from certain requirements in §§ 746.6 and 746.8 of the EAR, as described in §§ 746.6(a)(4) and 746.8(a)(12)(iii). In addition, these countries are excluded from the license requirements related to Iran in § 746.7, as described in § 746.7(a)(1)(iv) and (v). The Scope column of the following table identifies whether the country receives a full or partial exclusion. For countries with partial exclusions, the items for which such exclusions apply are listed in the Scope column.
Country | Scope | Federal Register citation
Australia | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Austria | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Belgium | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Bulgaria | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Canada | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Croatia | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Cyprus | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Czech Republic | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Denmark | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Estonia | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Finland | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
France | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Germany | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Greece | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Hungary | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Iceland | Full | 87 FR 21555, 4/12/2022.
Ireland | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Italy | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Japan | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Latvia | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Liechtenstein | Full | 87 FR 21555, 4/12/2022.
Lithuania | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Luxembourg | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Malta | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Netherlands | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
New Zealand | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Norway | Full | 87 FR 21555, 4/12/2022.
Poland | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Portugal | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Romania | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Slovakia | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Slovenia | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
South Korea | Full | 87 FR 13628, 3/10/2022.
Spain | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Sweden | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
Switzerland | Full | 87 FR 21555, 4/12/2022.
Taiwan | Full | 87 FR 12183, 2/27/2023.
United Kingdom | Full | 87 FR 12250, 3/3/2022.
[87 FR 12250, Mar. 3, 2022, as amended at 87 FR 13063, Mar. 8, 2022; 87 FR 13628, Mar. 11, 2022; 87 FR 21555, Apr. 12, 2022; 88 FR 12154, 12183, Feb. 27, 2023; 88 FR 33430, May 23, 2023; 89 FR 51665, June 18, 2024]

Supplement No. 4 to Part 746—Russian and Belarusian Industry Sector Sanctions Pursuant to § 746.8(a)(5)

(a) The source for the Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS)-6 codes and descriptions in this list is the United States International Trade Commission (USITC)'s Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (2023). The items described in supplement no. 4 to part 746 include any modified or designed “components,” “parts,” “accessories,” and “attachments” therefor regardless of the HTS Code or HTS Description of the “components,” “parts,” “accessories,” and “attachments,” apart from any “part” or minor “component” that is a fastener (e.g., screw, bolt, nut, nut plate, stud, insert, clip, rivet, pin), washer, spacer, insulator, grommet, bushing, spring, wire, or solder. The exclusion of fasteners from this control does not apply to fasteners that are designated under an HTS Code under this supplement. Although generally fasteners (e.g., screws, bolts, nuts, nut plates, studs, inserts, clips, rivets, pins), and washers, spacers, insulators, grommets, bushings, springs, wires, and solders are excluded from the scope of this supplement, certain part 744 license requirements for Russia and Belarus apply to all items “subject to the EAR,” and would therefore not exclude these items from the license requirements under that part (e.g., § 744.21 and the Entity List license requirements, which in most cases apply to all items “subject to the EAR.”). This supplement includes two columns consisting of the HTS Codes and HTS Descriptions to assist exporters, reexporters, and transferors in identifying the products in this supplement. For information on HTS codes in general, you may contact a local import specialist at U.S. Customs and Border Protection at the nearest port. HTS-6 codes 730424, 731100, 761300, 841350, 841360, 841382, 841392, 842139, 843049, 843139, 843143, 847989, and 870520 are listed in both this supplement and supplement no. 2 to this part, so exporters, reexporters, and transferors must comply with the license requirements under both § 746.8(a)(4) and (5) as applicable. HTS-6 Codes 590500, 840710, 840721, 840729, 840731, 840732, 840733, 840734, 840790, 840810, 840820, 840890, 840910, 840991, 840999, 841111, 841112, 841121, 841122, 841181, 841182, 841191, 841199, 841229, 841290, 841451, 841459, 841460, 841510, 841810, 841821, 841829, 841830, 841840, 841981, 842211, 842310, 842860, 843139, 844312, 844331, 844332, 844339, 845011, 845012, 845019, 845121, 845210, 847010, 847021, 847029, 847030, 847130, 847141, 847149, 847150, 847160, 847170, 847180, 847190, 847290, 847960, 848310, 848320, 848330, 848340, 848350, 848360, 848390, 850811, 850819, 850860, 850980, 851110, 851120, 851130, 851140, 851150, 851180, 851190, 851220, 851230, 851240, 851631, 851650, 851660, 851671, 851672, 851679, 851711, 851713, 851718, 851761, 851762, 851769, 851920, 851930, 851981, 851989, 852110, 852190, 852691, 852712, 852713, 852719, 852721, 852729, 852791, 852792, 852799, 852871, 852872, 852910, 853110, 854370, 854430, 870310, 870321, 870322, 870323, 870324, 870331, 870332, 870333, 870340, 870350, 870360, 870370, 870380, 870390, and 902000 are listed in both this supplement and supplement no. 5 to this part, so exporters, reexporters, and transferors must comply with the license requirements under both § 746.8(a)(5) and (7) as applicable.
(b) The items identified in the HTS-6 Code column of this supplement are subject to the license requirement under § 746.8(a)(5). The other column—HTS Description—is intended to assist exporters with their AES filing responsibilities. The license requirements extend to HTS Codes at the 8 and 10 digit level (HTS-8 and HTS-10 codes, respectively) when such longer HTS Codes begin with the HTS-6 Codes as their first 6 numbers. When a description mentions parts related to one or more numerical headings, this means parts related to any HS codes that begin with the digits in the range specified. For example, 'headings 8524 to 8528' means any HS code, HTS code, or Schedule B which has 8524, 8525, 8526, 8527, or 8528 as the first four digits.
HTS-6 code | HTS description
250200 | UNROASTED IRON PYRITES.
250300 | SULFUR OF ALL KINDS, OTHER THAN SUBLIMED SULFUR, PRECIPITATED SULFUR AND COLLOIDAL SULFUR.
250410 | NATURAL GRAPHITE, IN POWDER OR IN FLAKES.
250490 | NATURAL GRAPHITE, EXCEPT POWDER OR FLAKES.
250510 | SILICA SANDS AND QUARTZ SANDS, NATURAL.
250590 | SANDS, NATURAL, EXCEPT METAL BEARING OR SILICA OR QUARTZ SANDS.
250610 | QUARTZ (OTHER THAN NATURAL SANDS).
250620 | QUARTZITE.
250700 | KAOLIN AND OTHER KAOLINIC CLAYS, WHETHER OR NOT CALCINED.
250810 | BENTONITE, WHETHER OR NOT CALCINED.
250830 | FIRE CLAY, WHETHER OR NOT CALCINED.
250840 | CLAYS (EXCLUDING EXPANDED CLAYS), NESOI, INCLUDING COMMON BLUE CLAY AND OTHER BALL CLAYS, WHETHER OR NOT CALCINED.
250850 | ANDALUSITE, KYANITE AND SILLIMANITE, WHETHER OR NOT CALCINED.
250860 | MULLITE.
250870 | CHAMOTTE OR DINAS EARTH.
250900 | CHALK.
251110 | NATURAL BARIUM SULFATE (BARYTES).
251120 | NATURAL BARIUM CARBONATE (WITHERITE).
251200 | SILICEOUS FOSSIL MEALS (INCLUDING KIESELGUHR, TRIPOLITE AND DIATOMITE) AND SIMILAR SILICEOUS EARTHS, OF AN APPARENT SPECIFIC GRAVITY OF 1 OR LESS.
251310 | PUMICE STONE.
251320 | EMERY, NATURAL CORUNDUM, NATURAL GARNET AND OTHER NATURAL ABRASIVES.
251400 | SLATE, WHETHER OR NOT ROUGHLY TRIMMED OR MERELY CUT, BY SAWING ETC. INTO BLOCKS OR SLABS OF RECTANGULAR OR SQUARE SHAPE.
251511 | MARBLE AND TRAVERTINE, CRUDE OR ROUGHLY TRIMMED.
251512 | MARBLE AND TRAVERTINE, MERELY CUT INTO BLOCKS OR SLABS OF RECTANGULAR OR SQUARE SHAPE.
251520 | CALCAREOUS MONUMENTAL OR BUILDING STONE, EXCEPT MARBLE AND TRAVERTINE; ALABASTER.
251611 | GRANITE, CRUDE OR ROUGHLY TRIMMED.
251612 | GRANITE, MERELY CUT INTO BLOCKS OR SLABS OF RECTANGULAR OR SQUARE SHAPE.
251620 | SANDSTONE.
251690 | BASALT, PORPHYRY AND OTHER MONUMENTAL OR BUILDING STONE, NESOI, WHETHER OR NOT TRIMMED OR MERELY CUT INTO BLOCKS ETC. OF RECTANGULAR OR SQUARE SHAPE.
251710 | PEBBLES, GRAVEL, BROKEN OR CRUSHED STONES FOR CONCRETE AGGREGATES, FOR ROAD METALLING OR BALLAST, SHINGLE AND FLINT, WHETHER OR NOT HEAT TREATED.
251720 | MACADAM OF SLAG, DROSS OR SIMILAR INDUSTRIAL WASTE, WHETHER OR NOT INCORPORATING PEBBLES, GRAVEL, BROKEN OR CRUSHED STONES, CITED IN SUBHEADING 251710.
251730 | TARRED MACADAM.
251741 | MARBLE GRANULES, CHIPPINGS AND POWDER.
251749 | GRANULES, CHIPPINGS AND POWDER OF MONUMENTAL OR BUILDING STONES (CALCAREOUS NESOI, ALABASTER, GRANITE, PORPHYRY, BASALT, SANDSTONE ETC.), NESOI.
251810 | DOLOMITE NOT CALCINED.
251820 | CALCINED DOLOMITE.
251910 | NATURAL MAGNESIUM CARBONATE (MAGNESITE).
251990 | FUSED MAGNESIA; DEAD-BURNED (SINTERED) MAGNESIA; OTHER MAGNESIUM OXIDE NESOI, WHETHER OR NOT PURE.
252010 | GYPSUM; ANHYDRITE.
252020 | PLASTERS CONSISTING OF CALCINED GYPSUM OR CALCIUM SULFATE.
252100 | LIMESTONE FLUX; LIMESTONE AND OTHER CALCAREOUS STONE, OF A KIND USED FOR THE MANUFACTURE OF LIME OR CEMENT (OR FOR SOIL IMPROVEMENT).
252210 | QUICKLIME.
252220 | SLAKED LIME.
252230 | HYDRAULIC LIME.
252310 | CEMENT CLINKERS.
252321 | WHITE PORTLAND CEMENT, WHETHER OR NOT ARTIFICIALLY COLORED.
252329 | PORTLAND CEMENT, EXCEPT WHITE PORTLAND CEMENT.
252330 | ALUMINOUS CEMENT.
252390 | HYDRAULIC CEMENTS, NESOI.
252410 | CROCIDOLITE ASBESTOS.
252490 | ASBESTOS, EXCLUDING CROCIDOLITE.
252510 | CRUDE MICA AND MICA RIFTED INTO SHEETS OR SPLITTINGS.
252520 | MICA POWDER.
252530 | MICA WASTE.
252610 | NATURAL STEATITE AND TALC, NOT CRUSHED, NOT POWDERED.
252620 | NATURAL STEATITE AND TALC, CRUSHED OR POWDERED.
252800 | NATURAL BORATES & CONCENTRATES THEREOF, NOT INCLUDING BORATES SEPARATED FROM NATURAL BRINE; NATURAL BORIC ACID CONTAINING LT=85% H3BO3 CALC ON DRY WGT.
252910 | FELDSPAR.
252921 | FLUORSPAR, CONTAINING BY WEIGHT 97% OR LESS OF CALCIUM FLUORIDE.
252922 | FLUORSPAR, CONTAINING BY WEIGHT MORE THAN 97% OF CALCIUM FLUORIDE.
252930 | LEUCITE; NEPHELINE AND NEPHELINE SYENITE.
253010 | VERMICULITE, PERLITE AND CHLORITES, UNEXPANDED.
253020 | KIESERITE, EPSOM SALTS (NATURAL MAGNESIUM SULFATES).
253090 | MINERAL SUBSTANCES, NESOI.
260111 | IRON ORE CONCENTRATES (OTHER THAN ROASTED IRON PYRITES) AND NON-AGGLOMERATED IRON ORES.
260112 | AGGLOMERATED IRON ORES.
260120 | ROASTED IRON PYRITES.
260200 | MANGANESE ORES AND CONCENTRATES, INCLUDING FERRUGINOUS MANGANESE ORES AND CONCENTRATES WITH A MANGANESE CONTENT OF 20% OR MORE, BASED ON DRY WEIGHT.
260300 | COPPER ORES AND CONCENTRATES.
260400 | NICKEL ORES AND CONCENTRATES.
260500 | COBALT ORES AND CONCENTRATES.
260600 | ALUMINUM ORES AND CONCENTRATES.
260700 | LEAD ORES AND CONCENTRATES.
260800 | ZINC ORES AND CONCENTRATES.
260900 | TIN ORES AND CONCENTRATES.
261000 | CHROMIUM ORES AND CONCENTRATES.
261100 | TUNGSTEN ORES AND CONCENTRATES.
261220 | THORIUM ORES AND CONCENTRATES.
261310 | MOLYBDENUM ORES AND CONCENTRATES, ROASTED.
261390 | MOLYBDENUM ORES AND CONCENTRATES, NOT ROASTED.
261400 | TITANIUM ORES AND CONCENTRATES.
261510 | ZIRCONIUM ORES AND CONCENTRATES.
261590 | NIOBIUM, TANTALUM AND VANADIUM ORES AND CONCENTRATES.
261610 | SILVER ORES AND CONCENTRATES.
261690 | PRECIOUS METAL ORES AND CONCENTRATES, OTHER THAN SILVER.
261710 | ANTIMONY ORES AND CONCENTRATES.
261790 | ORES AND CONCENTRATES, NESOI.
261800 | GRANULATED SLAG (SLAG SAND) FROM IRON OR STEEL MANUFACTURE.
261900 | SLAG, DROSS (OTHER THAN GRANULATED SLAG), SCALINGS AND OTHER WASTE FROM THE MANUFACTURE OF IRON OR STEEL.
262011 | HARD ZINC SPELTER.
262019 | ASH AND RESIDUE (OTHER THAN FROM THE MANUFACTURE OF IRON OR STEEL) CONTAINING MAINLY ZINC, OTHER THAN HARD ZINC SPELTER.
262021 | ASHES AND RESIDUES OF LEADED GASOLINE SLUDGES AND LEADED ANTI-KNOCK COMPOUND SLUDGES.
262029 | ASH AND RESIDUES CONTAINING MAINLY LEAD, NESOI.
262030 | ASH AND RESIDUES NESOI, CONTAINING MAINLY COPPER.
262040 | ASH AND RESIDUES NESOI, CONTAINING MAINLY ALUMINUM.
262060 | ASH & RESIDUES CONTAINING ARSENIC, MERCURY, THALLIUM OR THEIR MIXTURES, USED FOR EXTRACTION OF THOSE METALS.
262091 | ASH & RESIDUES OF ANTIMONY, BERYLLIUM, CADMIUM, CHROMIUM OR THEIR MIXTURES, NESOI.
262099 | ASH AND RESIDUES NESOI, CONTAINING METALS OR METALLIC COMPOUNDS NESOI.
262110 | ASH AND RESIDUES FROM THE INCINERATION OF MUNICIPAL WASTE.
262190 | ASH AND SLAG, INCLUDING SEAWEED ASH (KELP), NESOI.
270111 | ANTHRACITE COAL, WHETHER OR NOT PULVERIZED, BUT NOT AGGLOMERATED.
270112 | BITUMINOUS COAL, WHETHER OR NOT PULVERIZED, BUT NOT AGGLOMERATED.
270119 | COAL, OTHER THAN ANTHRACITE OR BITUMINOUS, WHETHER OR NOT PULVERIZED, BUT NOT AGGLOMERATED.
270120 | BRIQUETTES, OVOIDS AND SIMILAR SOLID FUELS FROM COAL.
270210 | LIGNITE, NOT AGGLOMERATED, EXCLUDING JET.
270220 | AGGLOMERATED LIGNITE, EXCLUDING JET.
270300 | PEAT (INCLUDING PEAT LITTER) WHETHER OR NOT AGGLOMERATED.
270400 | COKE AND SEMICOKE OF COAL, OF LIGNITE OR OF PEAT, WHETHER OR NOT AGGLOMERATED; RETORT CARBON.
270500 | COAL GAS, WATER GAS, PRODUCER GAS AND SIMILAR GASES, EXCEPT PETROLEUM GASES AND OTHER GASEOUS HYDROCARBONS.
270600 | MINERAL TARS, INCLUDING RECONSTITUTED TARS.
270710 | BENZENE.
270720 | TOLUENE.
270730 | XYLENES.
270740 | NAPHTHALENE.
270750 | AROMATIC HYDROCARBONS NESOI, OF WHICH 65% OR MORE BY VOLUME (INCLUDING LOSSES) DISTILLS AT 250 DEGREES CENTIGRADE BY THE ASTM D 86 METHOD.
270791 | CREOSOTE OILS.
270799 | OILS AND PRODUCTS OF THE DISTILLATION OF HIGH TEMPERATURE COAL TAR, NESOI; SIMILAR PRODUCTS WHICH HAVE A PREDOMINATE (WT.) AROMATIC CONSTITUENT, NESOI.
270810 | PITCH FROM COAL AND OTHER MINERAL TARS.
270820 | PITCH COKE FROM COAL AND OTHER MINERAL TARS.
270900 | PETROLEUM OILS AND OILS FROM BITUMINOUS MINERALS, CRUDE.
271012 | LIGHT OILS AND PREPARATIONS CONTAINING GT=70% BY WEIGHT PETROLEUM OILS OR OILS FROM BITUMINOUS MINERALS, NOT CONTAINING BIODIESEL, NOT WASTE OILS.
271019 | PETROLEUM OILS, OILS FROM BITUMINOUS MINERALS (OTHER THAN CRUDE) & PRODUCTS CONTAINING BY WEIGHT GT=70% OR MORE OF THESE OILS, NOT BIODIESEL OR WASTE.
271020 | PETROLEUM OILS AND PREPARATIONS CONTAINING BIODIESEL, CONTAINING BY WEIGHT GT=70% PETROLEUM OILS OR OILS OF BITUMINOUS MINERALS, OTHER THAN WASTE OILS.
271091 | WASTE OILS CONTAINING POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PBC), POLYCHLORINATED TERPHENYLS (PCT) OR POLYBROMINATED BIPHENYLS (PBB).
271099 | WASTE OILS, NESOI.
271111 | NATURAL GAS, LIQUEFIED.
271112 | PROPANE, LIQUEFIED.
271113 | BUTANES, LIQUEFIED.
271114 | ETHYLENE, PROPYLENE, BUTYLENE AND BUTADIENE, LIQUEFIED.
271119 | PETROLEUM GASES AND OTHER GASEOUS HYDROCARBONS, LIQUEFIED, NESOI.
271121 | NATURAL GAS, GASEOUS.
271129 | PETROLEUM GASES AND OTHER GASEOUS HYDROCARBONS IN A GASEOUS STATE, NESOI (OTHER THAN NATURAL GAS).
271210 | PETROLEUM JELLY.
271220 | PARAFFIN WAX CONTAINING BY WEIGHT LESS THAN 0.75% OIL.
271290 | MICROCRYSTALLINE PETROLEUM WAX, SLACK WAX, OZOKERITE, LIGNITE WAX, PEAT WAX, OTHER MINERAL WAXES, AND SIMILAR PRODUCTS, NESOI.
271311 | PETROLEUM COKE, NOT CALCINED.
271312 | PETROLEUM COKE, CALCINED.
271320 | PETROLEUM BITUMEN.
271390 | RESIDUES OF PETROLEUM OILS OR OF OILS OBTAINED FROM BITUMINOUS MINERALS, NESOI.
271410 | BITUMINOUS OR OIL SHALE AND TAR SANDS.
271490 | BITUMEN AND ASPHALT, NATURAL; ASPHALTITES AND ASPHALTIC ROCKS.
271500 | BITUMINOUS MIXTURES BASED ON NATURAL ASPHALT, NATURAL BITUMEN, PETROLEUM BITUMEN, MINERAL TAR OR MINERAL TAR PITCH.
280110 | CHLORINE.
280200 | SULFUR, SUBLIMED OR PRECIPITATED; COLLODIAL SULFUR.
280410 | HYDROGEN.
280430 | NITROGEN.
280461 | SILICON, CONTAINING BY WEIGHT NOT LESS THAN 99.99% OF SILICON.
280470 | PHOSPHORUS.
280480 | ARSENIC.
280511 | SODIUM.
280610 | HYDROGEN CHLORIDE (HYDROCHLORIC ACID).
280620 | CHLOROSULFURIC ACID.
281111 | HYDROGEN FLUORIDE (HYDROFLUORIC ACID).
281129 | INORGANIC OXYGEN COMPOUNDS OF NONMETALS, NESOI.
281310 | CARBON DISULFIDE.
281410 | ANHYDROUS AMMONIA.
281420 | AMMONIA IN AQUEOUS SOLUTION.
281512 | SODIUM HYDROXIDE (CAUSTIC SODA), IN AQUEOUS SOLUTION (SODA LYE OR LIQUID SODA).
281820 | ALUMINUM OXIDE, EXCEPT ARTIFICIAL CORUNDUM, NESOI.
281830 | ALUMINUM HYDROXIDE.
281990 | CHROMIUM OXIDES AND HYDRIDES, EXCEPT CHROMIUM TRIOXIDE, NESOI.
282010 | MANGANESE DIOXIDE.
282110 | IRON OXIDES AND HYDROXIDES.
282510 | HYDRAZINE AND HYDROXYLAMINE AND THEIR INORGANIC SALTS.
282731 | MAGNESIUM CHLORIDE.
282732 | ALUMINUM CHLORIDE.
282735 | NICKEL CHLORIDE.
282751 | BROMIDES OF SODIUM OR OF POTASSIUM.
282890 | HYPOCHLORITES, CHLORITES, AND HYPOBROMITES, NESOI.
282911 | SODIUM CHLORATE.
282990 | PERCHLORATES; BROMATES AND PERBROMATES; IODATES AND PERIODATES.
283220 | SULFITES, EXCEPT SODIUM SULFITES, NESOI.
283324 | NICKEL SULFATE.
283330 | ALUMS.
283410 | NITRITES.
283539 | POLYPHOSPHATES, NESOI.
283630 | SODIUM HYDROGENCARBONATE (SODIUM BICARBONATE).
283650 | CALCIUM CARBONATE.
283990 | SILICATES; COMMERCIAL ALKALI METAL SILICATES, NESOI.
284030 | PEROXOBORATES (PERBORATES).
284150 | CHROMATES AND DICHROMATES, NESOI; PEROXOCHROMATES.
284180 | TUNGSTATES (WOLFRAMATES).
284310 | COLLOIDAL PRECIOUS METALS.
284329 | SILVER COMPOUNDS, EXCEPT SILVER NITRATE, NESOI.
284330 | GOLD COMPOUNDS.
284700 | HYDROGEN PEROXIDE, WHETHER OR NOT SOLIDIFIED WITH UREA.
284910 | CARBIDES OF CALCIUM, WHETHER OR NOT CHEMICALLY DEFINED.
320110 | QUEBRACHO EXTRACT.
320120 | WATTLE EXTRACT.
320190 | TANNING EXTRACTS OF VEGETABLE ORIGIN, NESOI; TANNINS AND THEIR SALTS, ETHERS, ESTERS AND OTHER DERIVATIVES.
320210 | SYNTHETIC ORGANIC TANNING SUBSTANCES.
320290 | INORGANIC TANNING SUBSTANCES; TANNING PREPARATIONS; ENZYMATIC PREPARATIONS FOR PRE-TANNING.
320300 | COLORING MATTER OF VEGETABLE OR ANIMAL ORIGIN AND PREPARATIONS BASED THEREON.
320490 | SYNTHETIC ORGANIC COLORING MATTER, NESOI.
320500 | COLOR LAKES; PREPARATIONS BASED ON COLOR LAKES.
320611 | PIGMENTS AND PREPARATIONS CONTAINING 80% OR MORE BY WEIGHT OF TITANIUM DIOXIDE CALCULATED ON THE DRY MATTER.
320641 | ULTRAMARINE AND PREPARATIONS BASED THEREON.
320649 | COLORING MATTER OF A KIND USED FOR COLORING ANY MATERIAL OR USED IN THE MANUFACTURE OF COLORING PREPARATIONS (OTHER THAN PAINTS OR ENAMELS), NESOI.
320710 | PREPARED PIGMENTS, PREPARED OPACIFIERS, PREPARED COLORS AND SIMILAR PREPARATIONS.
320720 | VITRIFIABLE ENAMELS AND GLAZES, ENGOBES (SLIPS) AND SIMILAR PREPARATIONS.
320730 | LIQUID LUSTRES AND SIMILAR PREPARATIONS.
320740 | GLASS FRIT AND OTHER GLASS, IN THE FORM OF POWDER, GRANULES OR FLAKES.
320810 | PAINTS AND VARNISHES (INCLUDING ENAMELS AND LACQUERS) BASED ON SYNTHETIC AND OTHER POLYMERS, IN A NONAQUEOUS MEDIUM, BASED ON POLYESTERS.
320820 | PAINTS AND VARNISHES (INCLUDING ENAMELS AND LACQUERS) BASED ON SYNTHETIC AND OTHER POLYMERS IN A NONAQUEOUS MEDIUM, BASED ON ACRYLIC OR VINYL POLYMERS.
320890 | PAINTS AND VARNISHES (INCLUDING ENAMELS AND LACQUERS) BASED ON SYNTHETIC AND OTHER POLYMERS IN A NONAQUEOUS MEDIUM, NESOI.
320910 | PAINTS AND VARNISHES (INCLUDING ENAMELS AND LACQUERS) BASED ON SYNTHETIC AND OTHER POLYMERS IN AN AQUEOUS MEDIUM, BASED ON ACRYLIC OR VINYL POLYMERS.
320990 | PAINTS AND VARNISHES (INCLUDING ENAMELS AND LACQUERS) BASED ON SYNTHETIC AND OTHER POLYMERS IN AN AQUEOUS MEDIUM, NESOI.
321000 | PAINTS AND VARNISHES (INCLUDING ENAMELS, LACQUERS AND DISTEMPERS); PREPARED WATER PIGMENTS OF A KIND USED FOR FINISHING LEATHER.
321290 | PIGMENTS (INCLUDING METALLIC POWDERS AND FLAKES) IN NONAQUEOUS MEDIA FOR PAINT MANUFACTURE; DYES AND COLORS PACKAGED FOR RETAIL SALES.
321410 | MASTICS (INCLUDING GLAZIERS' PUTTY, GRAFTING PUTTY, RESIN CEMENTS AND CAULKIING COMPOUNDS); PAINTERS' FILLINGS.
321490 | NONREFRACTORY SURFACING PREPARATIONS FOR FACADES, INDOOR WALLS, FLOORS, CEILINGS OR THE LIKE.
321511 | PRINTING INK, BLACK.
321519 | PRINTING INK, OTHER THAN BLACK.
340311 | LUBRICATING PREPARATIONS FOR THE TREATMENT OF TEXTILE MATERIALS, LEATHER, FURSKINS OR OTHER MATERIALS, CONTAINING PETROLEUM OR BITUMINOUS MINERAL OILS.
340319 | LUBRICATING PREPARATIONS CONTAINING PETROLEUM OILS OR OILS OBTAINED FROM BITUMINOUS MINERALS, NESOI.
340391 | LUBRICATNG PREPARTIONS FOR THE TREATMENT OF TEXTILE MATERIALS, LEATHER, FUR OR OTHER MATERIALS, NOT CONTAINING PETROLEUM OR BITUMINOUS MINERAL OILS.
340399 | LUBRICATING PREPARATIONS NOT CONTAINING PETROLEUM OILS OR OILS OBTAINED FROM BITUMINOUS MINERALS, NESOI.
350510 | DEXTRINS AND OTHER MODIFIED STARCHES.
350699 | PREPARED GLUES AND ADHESIVES, NESOI.
370120 | INSTANT PRINT FILM IN THE FLAT.
370191 | PHOTOGRAPHIC PLATES AND FLAT FILM (OF MATERIAL OTHER THAN PAPER, PAPERBOARD OR TEXTILES) FOR COLOR PHOTOGRAPHY (POLYCHROME), SENSITIZED, UNEXPOSED.
370210 | X-RAY FILM IN ROLLS, SENSITIZED, UNEXPOSED.
370231 | PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM IN ROLLS, NESOI, WITHOUT SPROCKET HOLES, NOT OVER 105 MM IN WIDTH, FOR COLOR PHOTOGRAPHY (POLYCHROME), SENSITIZED, UNEXPOSED.
370232 | PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM IN ROLLS, NESOI, WITHOUT SPROCKET HOLES, NOT OVER 105 MM (4.1 IN.) IN WIDTH, WITH SILVER HALIDE EMULSION, SENSITIZED, UNEXPOSED.
370239 | PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM IN ROLLS, NESOI, WITHOUT SPROCKET HOLES, NOT OVER 105 MM (4.1 IN.) IN WIDTH, NESOI, SENSITIZED, UNEXPOSED.
370241 | PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM IN ROLLS, NESOI, WITHOUT SPROCKET HOLES, OVER 610 MM IN WIDTH AND OVER 200 M IN LENGTH, FOR COLOR PHOTOGRAPHY, SENSITIZED, UNEXPOSED.
370242 | PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM IN ROLLS, NESOI, WITHOUT SPROCKET HOLES, OVER 610 MM IN WIDTH AND OVER 200 M IN LENGTH, NESOI, SENSITIZED, UNEXPOSED.
370243 | PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM IN ROLLS, NESOI, WITHOUT SPROCKET HOLES, OVER 610 MM (24 IN.) IN WIDTH AND NOT OVER 200 M (656 FT.) IN LENGTH, SENSITIZED, UNEXPOSED.
370244 | PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM IN ROLLS, NESOI, WITHOUT SPROCKET HOLES, OVER 105 MM (4.1 IN.) BUT NOT OVER 610 MM (24 IN.) IN WIDTH, SENSITIZED, UNEXPOSED.
370252 | PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM IN ROLLS WITH PERFORATIONS, FOR COLOR PHOTOGRAPHY (POLYCHROME), NOT OVER 16 MM (0.6 IN.) WIDE, SENSITIZED, UNEXPOSED, ETC.
370253 | PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM ROLLS, NESOI, FILM NESOI, FOR COLOR SLIDES, OVER 16 MM, NOT OVER 35 MM WIDE AND NOT OVER 30 M LONG, SENSITIZED, UNEXPOSED.
370254 | PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM ROLLS, NESOI, FILM NESOI, FOR COLOR PHOTOGRAPHY NESOI, OVER 16 MM, NOT OVER 35 MM WIDE AND NOT OVER 30 M LONG, SENSITIZED, UNEXPOSED.
370255 | PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM ROLLS, NESOI, FILM NESOI, FOR COLOR PHOTOGRAPHY, OVER 16 MM, BUT NOT OVER 35 MM WIDE AND OVER 30 M LONG, SENSITIZED, UNEXPOSED.
370256 | PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM ROLLS, NESOI, FILM NESOI, FOR COLOR PHOTOGRAPHY, OVER 35 MM (1.4 IN.) WIDE, SENSITIZED, UNEXPOSED.
370296 | PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM OF A WIDTH NOT EXCEEDING 35 MM (1.4 IN.) AND OF A LENGTH NOT EXCEEDING 30 M (98 FT.), MONOCHROME, SENSITIZED, UNEXPOSED, NESOI.
370297 | PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM OF A WIDTH NOT EXCEEDING 35 MM (1.4 IN.) AND OF A LENGTH EXCEEDING 30 M (98 FT.), MONOCHROME, SENSITIZED, UNEXPOSED, NESOI.
370298 | PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM OF A WIDTH EXCEEDING 35 MM (1.4 IN.), MONOCHROME (BLACK AND WHITE), SENSITIZED, UNEXPOSED, NOT OF PAPER, PAPERBOARD ETC, NESOI.
370310 | PHOTOGRAPHIC PAPER, PAPERBOARD AND TEXTILES IN ROLLS, OVER 610 MM (24 IN.) WIDE, SENSITIZED, UNEXPOSED.
370320 | PHOTOGRAPHIC PAPER, PAPERBOARD AND TEXTILES, NESOI, FOR COLOR PHOTOGRAPHY (NOT IN ROLLS OVER 610 MM (24 IN.) WIDE), SENSITIZED, UNEXPOSED.
370390 | PHOTOGRAPHIC PAPER, PAPERBOARD AND TEXTILES, NESOI, OTHER THAN FOR COLOR PHOTOGRAPHY (NOT IN ROLLS OVER 610 MM (24 IN.) WIDE), SENSITIZED, UNEXPOSED.
370500 | PHOTOGRAPHIC PLATES AND FILM, EXPOSED AND DEVELOPED, OTHER THAN CINEMATOGRAPHIC FILM.
370610 | MOTION-PICTURE FILM, EXPOSED AND DEVELOPED, 35 MM (1.4 IN.) OR OVER IN WIDTH.
370690 | MOTION-PICTURE FILM, EXPOSED AND DEVELOPED, LESS THAN 35 MM (1.4 IN.) IN WIDTH.
380120 | COLLOIDAL OR SEMI-COLLOIDAL GRAPHITE.
380620 | SALTS OF ROSIN OR OF RESIN ACIDS OR OF DERIVATIVES OF ROSIN OR RESIN ACIDS, EXCEPT SALTS OF ROSIN ADDUCTS.
380700 | WOOD TAR; WOOD TAR OILS; WOOD CRESOTE; WOOD NAPHTHA; VEGETABLE PITCH; BREWERS' PITCH AND LIKE PRODUCTS BASED ON ROSIN, RESIN ACIDS OR VEGETABLE PITCH.
380910 | FINISHING AGENTS, DYE CARRIERS AND DRESSINGS USED IN THE TEXTILE, PAPER ETC. INDUSTRIES, WITH A BASIS OF AMYLACEOUS SUBSTANCES.
380991 | FINISHING AGENTS, DYE CARRIERS AND PREPARATIONS NESOI, OF A KIND USED IN THE TEXTILE OR LIKE INDUSTRIES.
380992 | FINISHING AGENTS, DYE CARRIERS AND PREPARATIONS NESOI, OF A KIND USED IN THE PAPER OR LIKE INDUSTRIES.
380993 | FINISHING AGENTS, DYE CARRIERS AND PREPARATION NESOI, OF A KIND USED IN THE LEATHER OR LIKE INDUSTRIES.
381010 | PICKLING PREPARATION FOR METAL SURFACES; SOLDERING, BRAZING OR WELDING POWDERS AND PASTES CONSISTING OF METAL AND OTHER MATERIALS.
381090 | FLUXES AND OTHER AUXILIARY PREPARATIONS FOR SOLDERING, BRAZING OR WELDING, NESOI; PREPARED CORES OR COATINGS FOR WELDING ELECTRODES OR RODS.
381111 | ANTIKNOCK PREPARATIONS, BASED ON LEAD COMPOUNDS.
381119 | ANTIKNOCK PREPARATIONS, NESOI.
381121 | ADDITIVES FOR LUBRICATING OILS CONTAINING PETROLEUM OILS OR OILS OBTAINED FROM BITUMINOUS MINERALS.
381129 | ADDITIVES FOR LUBRICATING OILS, NESOI.
381190 | PREPARED ADDITIVES FOR MINERAL OILS (INCLUDING GASOLINE) OR FOR OTHER LIQUIDS USED FOR THE SAME PURPOSE AS MINERAL OILS, NESOI.
381220 | COMPOUND PLASTICIZERS FOR RUBBER OR PLASTICS.
381300 | PREPARATIONS AND CHARGES FOR FIRE-EXTINGUISHERS; CHARGED FIRE-EXTINGUISHNG GRENADES.
381400 | ORGANIC COMPOSITE SOLVENTS AND THINNERS, NESOI; PREPARED PAINT OR VARNISH REMOVERS.
381511 | SUPPORTED CATALYSTS WITH NICKEL OR NICKEL COMPOUNDS AS THE ACTIVE SUBSTANCE.
381512 | SUPPORTED CATALYSTS WITH PRECIOUS METAL OR PRECIOUS METAL COMPOUNDS AS THE ACTIVE SUBSTANCE.
381519 | SUPPORTED CATALYSTS, NESOI.
381590 | REACTION INITIATORS, REACTION ACCELERATORS AND CATALYTIC PREPARATIONS, NESOI.
381600 | REFRACTORY CEMENTS, MORTARS, CONCRETES, AND SIMILAR COMPOSITIONS (EXCEPT OF GRAPHITE OR OTHER CARBON PREPARATIONS), NESOI.
381700 | MIXED ALKYLBENZENES AND MIXED ALKLNAPHTHALENES, OTHER THAN THOSE OF HEADING 2707 OR 2902.
381800 | CHEMICAL ELEMENTS DOPED FOR USE IN ELECTRONICS, IN THE FORM OF DISCS, WAFERS OR SIMILAR FORMS; CHEMICAL COMPOUNDS DOPED FOR USE IN ELECTRONICS.
381900 | HYDRAULIC BRAKE FLUIDS AND PREPARED LIQUIDS FOR HYDRAULIC TRANSMISSION, WITH LESS THAN 70% (IF ANY) BY WEIGHT OF PETROLEUM OR BITUMINOUS MINERAL OILS.
382000 | ANTIFREEZING PREPARATIONS AND PREPARED DEICING FLUIDS.
382313 | TALL OIL FATTY ACIDS.
382481 | MIXTURES AND PREPARATIONS CONTAINING OXIRANE (ETHYLENE OXIDE).
382484 | MIX AND PREPS CONTAINING ALDRIN, CAMPHECHLOR, CHLORDANE, CHLORDECONE, DDT, 1,1,1-TRICHLORO-2-2BIS(P-CHLOROPHENYL)ETHANES),DIELDRIN, ENDOSULFAN,ETC.
382499 | CHEMICAL PRODUCTS AND PREPARATIONS OF THE CHEMICAL OR ALLIED INDUSTRIES, N.E.S.O.I.; RESIDUAL PRODUCTS OF THE CHEMICAL OR ALLIED INDUSTRIES, N.E.S.O.I.
382590 | WASTE AS SPECIFIED IN CHAPTER 38 NOTES, NESOI.
382600 | BIODIESEL AND MIXTURES THEREOF, NOT CONTAINING OR CONTAINING LESS THAN 70% BY WEIGHT OF PETROLEUM OILS OR OILS OBTAINED FROM BITUMINOUS MATERIALS.
382790 | ACYCLIC PERHALOGENATED DERIVATIVES, NESOI.
390140 | ETHYLENE-ALPHA-OLEFIN COPOLYMERS, HAVING A SPECIFIC GRAVITY OF LESS THAN 0.94.
390220 | POLYISOBUTYLENE, IN PRIMARY FORMS.
390230 | PROPYLENE COPOLYMERS, IN PRIMARY FORMS.
390290 | POLYMERS OF PROPYLENE OR OTHER OLEFINS NESOI, IN PRIMARY FORMS.
390319 | POLYSTYRENE NESOI, IN PRIMARY FORMS.
390390 | POLYMERS OF STYRENE NESOI, IN PRIMARY FORMS.
390410 | POLYVINYL CHLORIDE, NOT MIXED WITH ANY OTHER SUBSTANCES, IN PRIMARY FORMS.
390450 | VINYLIDENE CHLORIDE POLYMERS, IN PRIMARY FORMS.
390512 | POLYMERS OF VINYL ACETATE,IN AQUEOUS DISPERSION.
390519 | POLYMERS OF VINYL ACETATE, NOT IN AQUEOUS DISPERSION, IN PRIMARY FORMS.
390521 | VINYL ACETATE COPOLYMERS,IN AQUEOUS DISPERSION.
390529 | VINYL ACETATE COPOLYMERS, NESOI.
390530 | POLYVINYL ALCOHOLS, WHETHER OR NOT CONTAINING UNHYDROLYZED ACETATE GROUPS.
390591 | COPOLYMERS OF VINYL ESTERS, IN PRIMARY FORMS, N.E.S.O.I.
390599 | VINYL POLYMERS IN PRIMARY FORMS, N.E.S.O.I.
390610 | POLYMETHYL METHACRYLATE, IN PRIMARY FORMS.
390690 | ACRYLIC POLYMERS NESOI, IN PRIMARY FORMS.
390721 | POLYETHERS NESOI, IN PRIMARY FORMS.
390740 | POLYCARBONATES, IN PRIMARY FORMS.
390770 | POLY(LACTIC) ACID, IN PRIMARY FORMS.
390791 | POLYESTERS NESOI, UNSATURATED, IN PRIMARY FORMS.
390810 | POLYAMIDE-6,-11,-12,-6,6,-6,9,-6,10 OR -6,12 (NYLON TYPE), IN PRIMARY FORMS.
390890 | POLYAMIDES NESOI, IN PRIMARY FORMS.
390920 | MELAMINE RESINS, IN PRIMARY FORMS.
390939 | AMINO-RESINS, NESOI.
390940 | PHENOLIC RESINS, IN PRIMARY FORMS.
390950 | POLYURETHANES, IN PRIMARY FORMS.
391211 | CELLULOSE ACETATES, NONPLASTICIZED, IN PRIMARY FORMS.
391220 | CELLULOSE NITRATES (INCLUDING COLLODIONS), IN PRIMARY FORMS.
391290 | CELLULOSE AND ITS CHEMICAL DERIVATIVES NESOI, IN PRIMARY FORMS.
391520 | WASTE, PARINGS AND SCRAP, OF POLYMERS OF STYRENE.
391710 | ARTIFICIAL GUTS (SAUSAGE CASING), OF HARDENED PROTEIN OR OF CELLULOSIC PLASTIC MATERIALS.
391723 | TUBES, PIPES AND HOSES, RIGID, OF POLYMERS OF VINYL CHLORIDE.
391731 | FLEXIBLE TUBES, PIPES AND HOSES, HAVING A MINIMUM BURST PRESSURE OF 27.6 MPA, OF PLASTICS.
391732 | TUBES, PIPES AND HOSES NESOI, NOT REINFORCED OR OTHERWISE COMBINED WITH OTHER MATERIALS, OF PLASTICS, WITHOUT FITTINGS.
391733 | TUBES, PIPES AND HOSES NESOI, NOT REINFORCED OR OTHERWISE COMBINED WITH OTHER MATERIALS, OF PLASTICS, WITH FITTINGS.
392010 | PLATES, SHEETS, FILM, FOIL AND STRIP OF PLASTICS, NOT SELF-ADHESIVE, NON-CELLULAR, NOT REINFORCED OR LAMINATED ETC., OF POLYMERS OF ETHYLENE.
392061 | PLATES, SHEETS, FILM, FOIL AND STRIP OF PLASTICS, NOT SELF-ADHESIVE, NON-CELLULAR, NOT REINFORCED ETC., OF POLYCARBONATES.
392069 | PLATES, SHEETS, FILM, FOIL AND STRIP OF PLASTICS, NOT SELF-ADHESIVE, NON-CELLULAR, NOT REINFORCED OR LAMINATED ETC., OF POLYESTERS NESOI.
392073 | PLATES, SHEETS, FILM, FOIL AND STRIP OF PLASTICS, NOT SELF-ADHESIVE, NON-CELLULAR, NOT REINFORCED OR LAMINATED ETC., OF CELLULOSE ACETATE.
392091 | PLATES, SHEETS, FILM, FOIL AND STRIP OF PLASTICS, NOT SELF-ADHESIVE, NON-CELLULAR, NOT REINFORCED OR LAMINATED ETC., OF POLYVINYL BUTYRAL.
392119 | PLATES, SHEETS, FILM, FOIL AND STRIP OF PLASTICS NESOI, CELLULAR PLASTICS NESOI.
392290 | BIDETS, LAVATORY PANS, FLUSHING CISTERNS AND SIMILAR SANITARY WARE, OF PLASTICS.
392520 | DOORS, WINDOWS AND THEIR FRAMES AND THRESHOLDS FOR DOORS, OF PLASTICS.
400211 | LATEX OF STYRENE-BUTADIENE RUBBER (SBR) OR CARBOXYLATED STYRENE-BUTADIENE RUBBER (XSBR).
400219 | STYRENE-BUTADIENE RUBBER (SBR) OR CARBOXYLATED STYRENE-BUTADIENE RUBBER (XSBR) IN PRIMARY FORMS (EXCEPT LATEX) OR IN PLATES, SHEETS OR STRIP.
400220 | BUTADIENE RUBBER (BR) IN PRIMARY FORMS OR IN PLATES, SHEETS OR STRIP.
400231 | ISOBUTENE-ISOPRENE (BUTYL) RUBBER (IIR) IN PRIMARY FORMS OR IN PLATES, SHEETS OR STRIP.
400239 | HALO-ISOBUTENE-ISOPRENE RUBBER (CIIR OR BIIR) IN PRIMARY FORMS OR IN PLATES, SHEETS OR STRIP.
400241 | LATEX OF CHLOROPRENE (CHLOROBUTADIENE) RUBBER (CR).
400249 | CHLOROPRENE (CHLOROBUTADIENE) RUBBER (CR) IN PRIMARY FORMS (EXCEPT LATEX) OR IN PLATES, SHEETS OR STRIP.
400251 | LATEX OF ACRYLONITRILE-BUTADIENE RUBBER (NBR).
400259 | ACRYLONITRILE-BUTADIENE RUBBER (NBR) IN PRIMARY FORMS (EXCEPT LATEX) OR IN PLATES, SHEETS OR STRIP.
400260 | ISOPRENE RUBBER (IR) IN PRIMARY FORMS OR IN PLATES, SHEETS OR STRIP.
400270 | ETHYLENE-PROPYLENE-NONCONJUGATED DIENE RUBBER (EPDM) IN PRIMARY FORMS OR IN PLATES, SHEETS OR STRIP.
400280 | MIXTURES OF NATURAL RUBBER OR SIMILAR NATURAL GUMS WITH SYNTHETIC RUBBER AND FACTICE DERIVED FROM OILS, IN PRIMARY FORMS OR IN PLATES, SHEETS OR STRIP.
400291 | LATEX OF SYNTHETIC RUBBER AND FACTICE DERIVED FROM OILS, NESOI.
400299 | SYNTHETIC RUBBER AND FACTICE DERIVED FROM OILS, IN PRIMARY FORMS OR IN PLATES, SHEETS OR STRIP, NESOI.
400510 | COMPOUNDED RUBBER, UNVULCANIZED, COMPOUNDED WITH CARBON BLACK OR SILICA, IN PRIMARY FORMS OR IN PLATES, SHEETS OR STRIP.
400520 | COMPOUNDED RUBBER, UNVULCANIZED, IN SOLUTION; DISPERSIONS OTHER THAN THOSE COMPOUNDED WITH CARBON BLACK OR SILICA.
400591 | COMPOUNDED RUBBER, UNVULCANIZED, IN PLATES, SHEETS, AND STRIP, NESOI.
400599 | COMPOUNDED RUBBER, UNVULCANIZED, IN PRIMARY FORMS, NESOI.
400610 | CAMEL-BACK STRIPS FOR RETREADING RUBBER TIRES, OF UNVULCANIZED RUBBER.
400821 | PLATES, SHEETS AND STRIP OF VULCANIZED RUBBER, EXCEPT HARD RUBBER, OF NONCELLULAR RUBBER.
400912 | TUBES, PIPE, AND HOSES, OF VULCANIZED RUBBER, EXC HARD RUBBER, NOT REINFORCED OR OTHERWISE COMBINED WITH OTHER MATERIALS, WITH FITTINGS.
400941 | TUBES, PIPES AND HOSES, OF VULCANIZED RUBBER, EXCEPT HARD RUBBER, REINFORCED OR OTHERWISE COMBINED WITH OTHER MATERIALS, NESOI, WITHOUT FITTINGS.
401011 | CONVEYOR BELTS OR BELTING REINFORCED ONLY WITH METAL.
401012 | CONVEYOR BELTS OR BELTING REINFORCED ONLY WITH TEXTILE MATERIALS.
401019 | CONVEYOR BELTS OR BELTING OF VULCANIZED RUBBER, NESOI.
401031 | ENDLESS TRANSMISSION BELTS OF TRAPEZOIDAL CROSS SECTION (V-BELTS), V-RIBBED, OF CIRCUMFERENCE EXCEEDING 60CM BUT NOT EXCEEDING 180 CM.
401032 | ENDLESS TRANSMISSION BELTS OF TRAPEZOIDAL CROSS SECTION (V-BELTS), OF CIRCUMFERENCE EXCEEDING 60CM BUT NOT EXCEEDING 180 CM, NESOI.
401033 | ENDLESS TRANSMISSION BELTS OF TRAPEZOIDAL CROSS SECTION (V-BELTS), V-RIBBED, OF CIRCUMFERENCE EXCEEDING 180CM BUT NOT EXCEEDING 240 CM.
401034 | ENDLESS TRANSMISSION BELTS OF TRAPEZOIDAL CROSS SECTION (V-BELTS), OF CIRCUMFERENCE EXCEEDING 180CM BUT NOT EXCEEDING 240 CM, NESOI.
401035 | ENDLESS SYNCHRONOUS BELTS OF A CIRCUMFERENCE EXCEEDING 60 CM BUT NOT EXCEEDING 150 CM.
401036 | ENDLESS SYNCHRONOUS BELTS OF A CIRCUMFERENCE EXCEEDING 150 CM BUT NOT EXCEEDING 198 CM.
401039 | TRANSMISSION BELTS OR BELTING, OF VULCANIZED RUBBER, NESOI.
401120 | NEW PNEUMATIC TIRES, OF RUBBER, OF A KIND USED ON BUSES OR TRUCKS.
401130 | NEW PNEUMATIC TIRES, OF RUBBER, OF A KIND USED ON AIRCRAFT.
401211 | RETREADED TIRES OF RUBBER, OF A KIND USED ON MOTOR CARS (INCLUDING STATION WAGONS AND RACING CARS).
401212 | RETREADED TIRES OF RUBBER, OF A KIND USED ON BUSES OR TRUCKS.
401213 | RETREADED TIRES OF RUBBER, OF A KIND USED ON AIRCRAFT.
401219 | RETREADED TIRES OF RUBBER, NESOI.
401220 | USED PNEUMATIC TIRES, OF RUBBER.
401290 | SOLID OR CUSHION TIRES, INTERCHANGEABLE TIRE TREADS AND TIRE FLAPS, OF RUBBER.
401693 | GASKETS, WASHERS AND OTHER SEALS, OF VULCANIZED RUBBER OTHER THAN HARD RUBBER.
401699 | ARTICLES OF VULCANIZED RUBBER OTHER THAN HARD RUBBER, NESOI.
440711 | PINE WOOD SAWN OR CHIPPED LENGTHWISE, SLICED OR PEELED, OF A THICKNESS EXCEEDING 6MM.
440712 | FIR WOOD SAWN OR CHIPPED LENGTHWISE, SLICED OR PEELED, OF A THICKNESS EXCEEDING 6MM.
440713 | OTHER CONIFEROUS WOOD SAWN OR CHIPPED LENGTHWISE, SLICED OR PEELED, THICKNESS EXCEEDING 6MM.
440714 | OTHER CONIFEROUS WOOD SAWN OR CHIPPED LENGTHWISE, SLICED OR PEELED, THICKNESS EXCEEDING 6MM.
440719 | OTHER CONIFEROUS WOOD SAWN OR CHIPPED LENGTHWISE, SLICED OR PEELED, THICKNESS EXCEEDING 6MM.
440721 | MAHOGANY (SWIETENIA SPP.), SAWN OR CHIPPED LENGTHWISE, SLICED OR PEELED.
440722 | VIROLA, IMBUIA AND BALSA, SAWN OR CHIPPED LENGTHWISE, SLICED OR PEELED.
440723 | TROPICAL WOOD SAWN ETC., BABOEN, MAHOGANY (SWIETENIA SPP.), IMBUIA AND BALSA, SLICED OR PEELED, PLANED OR NOT ETC., OVER 6 MM (.236 IN.) THICK.
440725 | DARK RED MERANTI, LIGHT RED MERANTI AND MERANTI BAKAU, WOOD SAWN OR CHIPPED LENGTHWISE,SLICED OR PEELED, WHETHER OR NOT PLANED, SANDED OR ETC.
440726 | WHITE LAUAN, WHITE MERANTI, WHITE SERAYA, YELLOW MERANTI AND ALAN, LUMBER.
440727 | SAPELLI, SAWN OR CHIPPED LENGTHWISE, SLICED OR PEELED.
440728 | IROKO, SAWN OR CHIPPED LENGTHWISE, SLICED OR PEELED.
440729 | OTHER TROPICAL WOOD SPECIFIED IN SUBHEADING NOTE 2 TO THIS CHAPTER, WOOD SAWN OR CHIPED LENGTHWISE, SLICED OR PEELED WHETHER OR NOT PLANED, SANDED ETC.
440791 | OAK WOOD, SAWN OR CHIPPED LENGTHWISE, SLICED OR PEELED, WHETHER OR NOT PLANED ETC., OVER 6 MM (.236 IN.) THICK.
440792 | BEECH WOOD SAWN OR CHIPPED LENGTHWISE, SLICED OR PEELED, WHETHER OR NOT PLANED ETC., OVER 6 MM (.236 IN.) THICK.
440793 | MAPLE (ACER SPP.), SAWN OR CHIPPED LENGTHWISE, SLICED OR PEELED.
440794 | CHERRY, SAWN OR CHIPPED LENGTHWISE, SLICED OR PEELED.
440795 | ASH, SAWN OR CHIPPED LENGTHWISE, SLICED OR PEELED.
440796 | BIRCH WOOD SAWN OR CHIPPED LENGTHWISE, SLICED OR PEELED, OF A THICKNESS EXCEEDING 6MM.
440797 | POPLAR AND ASPEN WOOD SAWN OR CHIPPED LENGTHWISE, SLICED OR PEELED, OF A THICKNESS EXCEEDING 6 MM.
440799 | NONCONIFEROUS WOOD NESOI, SAWN OR CHIPPED LENGTHWISE, SLICED OR PEELED, WHETHER OR NOT PLANED, ETC., OVER 6 MM (.236 IN.) THICK.
440810 | VENEER SHEETS AND SHEETS FOR PLYWOOD, ETC. WHETHER OR NOT PLANED, ETC., NOT OVER 6 MM (.236 IN.) THICK, OF CONIFEROUS WOOD.
440890 | VENEER SHEETS AND SHEETS FOR PLYWOOD, ETC. WHETHER OR NOT PLANED, ETC., NOT OVER 6 MM (.236 IN.) THICK, OF NONCONIFEROUS WOOD, NESOI.
441113 | MEDIUM DENSITY FIBERBOARD (MDF), OF A THICKNESS EXCEEDING 5 MM BUT NOT EXCEEDING 9 MM.
441194 | FIBERBOARD OF WOOD OR OTHER LIGNEOUS MATERIALS, OF A DENSITY NOT EXCEEDING 0.5 G/M3, NESOI.
441210 | PLYWOOD, VENEERED PANELS AND SIMILAR LAMINATED WOOD, OF BAMBOO.
441231 | PLYWOOD CONSISTING SOLELY OF SHEETS OF WOOD (EXC BAMBOO), EACH PLY NOT EXCEEDING 6 MM IN THICKNESS, TROP WD SPEC IN SUBHEAD NT 1.
441233 | PLYWOOD, VENEERED PANELS, SIM LAMINATD WOOD, NES, AT LEAST ONE OUTER PLY OF NONCONIFEROUS WOOD OF THE SPECIES SPECIFIED IN THIS SUBHEADING.
441234 | PLYWOOD CONSISTING SOLELY OF SHEETS OF WOOD, EACH PLY NOT GT 6MM THICKNESS AT LEAST ONE OUTER PLY OF NONCONIF WOOD NOT SPECIFIED UNDER 4412.33, NES.
441239 | PLYWOOD CONSISTING SOLELY OF SHEETS OF WOOD (EXC BAMBOO), EACH PLY NOT EXCEEDING 6 MM IN THICKNESS, CONIFEROUS WD, NESOI.
441241 | PLYWOOD, VENEERED PANELS AND SIMILAR LAMINATED WOOD, NESOI.
441242 | PLYWOOD, VENEERED PANELS AND SIMILAR LAMINATED WOOD, NESOI.
441249 | PLYWOOD, VENEERED PANELS AND SIMILAR LAMINATED WOOD, NESOI.
441251 | BLOCKBOARD, LAMINBOARD AND BATTENBOARD, OTHER THAN OF BAMBOO.
441252 | BLOCKBOARD, LAMINBOARD AND BATTENBOARD, OTHER THAN OF BAMBOO.
441259 | BLOCKBOARD, LAMINBOARD AND BATTENBOARD, OTHER THAN OF BAMBOO.
441291 | PLYWOOD, VENEERED PANELS AND SIMILAR LAMINATED WOOD, NESOI, CONTAINING AT LEAST ONE LAYER OF PARTICLE BOARD.
441292 | VENEERED PANELS AND SIMILAR LAMINATED WOOD, PLYWOOD NESOI, ALL WITH AT LEAST ONE PLY OF TROPICAL WOOD, N.E.S.O.I.
441299 | PLYWOOD, VENEERED PANELS AND SIMILAR LAMINATED WOOD, NESOI.
441600 | CASKS, BARRELS, VATS, TUBS AND OTHER COOPERS' PRODUCTS AND PARTS THEREOF, OF WOOD, INCLUDING STAVES.
441830 | PARQUET PANELS, OF WOOD.
441840 | FORMWORK (SHUTTERING) FOR CONCRETE CONSTRUCTIONAL WORK, OF WOOD.
441879 | ASSEMBLED FLOORING PANELS, OF WOOD, NESOI.
450310 | CORKS AND STOPPERS OF NATURAL CORK.
450390 | ARTICLES OF NATURAL CORK, NESOI.
450410 | BLOCKS, PLATES, SHEETS AND STRIP, TILES OF ANY SHAPE, SOLID CYLINDERS, INCLUDING DISKS, OF AGGLOMERATED CORK.
450490 | AGGLOMERATED CORK (WITH OR WITHOUT BINDING SUBSTANCES) AND ARTICLES OF AGGLOMERATED CORK, NESOI.
470100 | MECHANICAL WOODPULP.
470311 | CHEMICAL WOODPULP, SODA OR SULFATE, OTHER THAN DISSOLVING GRADE, UNBLEACHED, CONIFEROUS.
470319 | CHEMICAL WOODPULP, SODA OR SULFATE, OTHER THAN DISSOLVING GRADE, UNBLEACHED, NONCONIFEROUS.
470321 | CHEMICAL WOODPULP, SODA OR SULFATE, OTHER THAN DISSOLVING GRADES, SEMIBLEACHED OR BLEACHED, CONIFEROUS.
470329 | CHEMICAL WOODPULP, SODA OR SULFATE, OTHER THAN DISSOLVING GRADES, SEMIBLEACHED OR BLEACHED, NONCONIFEROUS.
470411 | CHEMICAL WOODPULP, SULFITE, OTHER THAN DISSOLVING GRADE, UNBLEACHED, CONIFEROUS.
470419 | CHEMICAL WOODPULP, SULFITE, OTHER THAN DISSOLVING GRADES, UNBLEACHED, NONCONIFEROUS.
470421 | CHEMICAL WOODPULP, SULFITE, OTHER THAN DISSOLVING GRADES, SEMIBLEACHED OR BLEACHED, CONFIEROUS.
470429 | CHEMICAL WOODPULP, SULFITE, OTHER THAN DISSOLVING GRADES, SEMIBLEACHED OR BLEACHED, NONCONIFEROUS.
470500 | WOOD PULP OBTAINED BY A COMBINATION OF MECHANICAL AND CHEMICAL PULPING PROCESSES.
470610 | COTTON LINTERS PULP.
470620 | PULPS OF FIBERS DERIVED FROM RECOVERED (WASTE AND SCRAP) PAPER OR PAPERBOARD.
470630 | PULPS OF FIBERS DERIVED OF OTHER FIBROUS CELLULOSIC MATERIAL, OTHER, OF BAMBOO.
470691 | MECHANICAL PULPS OF FIBROUS CELLULOSIC MATERIAL (OTHER THAN WOOD), NESOI.
470692 | CHEMICAL PULPS OF FIBROUS CELLULOSIC MATERIAL (OTHER THAN WOOD), NESOI.
470693 | PULPS OF FIBROUS CELLULOSIC MATERIAL OBTAINED BY A COMBINATION OF MECHANICAL AND CHEMICAL PROCESSES, NESOI.
470710 | WASTE AND SCRAP OF UNBLEACHED KRAFT PAPER OR PAPERBOARD OR OF CORRUGATED PAPER OR PAPERBOARD.
470720 | RECOVERED (WASTE AND SCRAP) PAPER OR PAPERBOARD, MADE MAINLY OF BLEACHED CHEMICAL PULP, NOT COLORED IN THE MASS.
470730 | RECOVERED (WASTE AND SCRAP) PAPER OR PAPERBOARD, MADE MAINLY OF MECHANICAL PULP (FOR EXAMPLE, NEWSPAPERS, JOURNALS AND SIMILAR PRINTED MATTER.
470790 | WASTE AND SCRAP OF PAPER OR PAPERBOARD, NESOI, INCLUDING UNSORTED WASTE AND SCRAP.
480220 | PAPER AND PAPERBOARD USED AS A BASE FOR PHOTO-SENSITIVE, HEAT-SENSITIVE OR ELECTRO-SENSITIVE PAPER OR PAPERBOARD, UNCOATED, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
480240 | WALLPAPER BASE (HANGING PAPER), UNCOATED, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
480258 | PAPER AND PAPERBOARD, NESOI, NOT OVER 10% (WT.) OF FIBERS (IF ANY) OBTAINED BY MECHANICAL PROCESS, WEIGHING OVER 150 G/M2, UNCOATED, ROLLS OR SHEETS.
480261 | PAPER & PAPERBOARD, UNCOATED, OVER 10% BY WEIGHT MECHANICAL FIBERS, IN ROLLS.
480411 | KRAFTLINER, UNCOATED, UNBLEACHED, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
480419 | KRAFTLINER, UNCOATED, BLEACHED, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
480421 | SACK KRAFT PAPER, UNCOATED, UNBLEACHED, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
480429 | SACK KRAFT PAPER, UNCOATED, BLEACHED, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
480431 | KRAFT PAPER AND PAPERBOARD, NESOI, WEIGHING NOT OVER 150 G/M2, UNCOATED, UNBLEACHED, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
480439 | KRAFT PAPER AND PAPERBOARD, NESOI, WEIGHING NOT OVER 150 G/M2, UNCOATED, BLEACHED, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
480441 | KRAFT PAPER AND PAPERBOARD, NESOI, WEIGHING OVER 150 G/M2 BUT LESS THAN 225 G/M2, UNCOATED, UNBLEACHED, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
480442 | KRAFT PAPER AND PAPERBOARD, NESOI, OVER 150 G/M2 BUT UNDER 225 G/M2, UNCOATED, BLEACHED, OVER 95% (WT.) WOOD FIBERS BY CHEMICAL PROCESS, IN ROLLS ETC.
480449 | KRAFT PAPER AND PAPERBOARD, NESOI, WEIGHING OVER 150 G/M2 BUT UNDER 225 G/M2, UNCOATED, BLEACHED NESOI, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
480451 | KRAFT PAPER AND PAPERBOARD, NESOI, WEIGHING 225 G/M2 OR OVER, UNCOATED, UNBLEACHED, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
480452 | KRAFT PAPER AND PAPERBOARD, NESOI, WEIGHING 225 G/M2 OR OVER, UNCOATED, BLEACHED, OVER 95% (WT.) WOOD FIBERS BY CHEMICAL PROCESS, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
480459 | KRAFT PAPER AND PAPERBOARD, NESOI, WEIGHING 225 G/M2 OR OVER, UNCOATED, BLEACHED NESOI, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
480511 | SEMICHEMICAL FLUTING PAPER (CORRUGATING MEDIUM), UNCOATED, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
480512 | STRAW FLUTING PAPER, UNCOATED, IN ROLLS/SHEETS, NOT FURTHER WORKED/PROCESSED THAN AS SPECIFIED IN NOTE 3 TO CHAPTER 48.
480519 | FLUTING PAPER, UNCOATED, IN ROLLS/SHEETS, NOT FUTHER WORKED OR PROCESSED THAT AS SPECIFIED IN NOTE 3 TO CHAPTER 48, NESOI.
480524 | TESTLINER (RECUCLED LINER BOARD),UNCOATED, IN ROLLS/SHEETS, NOT FURTHER WORKED THAN AS SPECIFIED IN NOTE 3 TO CHAPTER 48, WEIGHTING 150 G/M2 OR LESS.
480525 | TESTLINER (RECYCLED LINER BOARD, UNCOATED, IN ROLLS/SHEETS, NOT FUTHER WORKED THAN AS SPECIFIED IN NOTE 3 TO CHAPTER 48, WEIGHING MORE THAN 150 G/M2.
480530 | SULFITE WRAPPING PAPER, UNCOATED, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
480540 | FILTER PAPER AND PAPERBOARD, UNCOATED, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
480550 | FELT PAPER AND PAPERBOARD, UNCOATED, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
480591 | PAPER & PAPERBOARD, UNCOATED, WEIGHING 150 G/M2 OR LESS, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS, NESOI.
480592 | PAPER & PAPERBOARD, UNCOATED, IN ROLLS/SHEETS, WEIGHTING MORE THAN 150 BUT LESS THAN 225 G/M2, NESOI.
480593 | PAPER & PAPERBOARD, UNCOATED, IN ROLLS/SHEETS, WEIGHING 225 G/M2 OR MORE, NESOI.
480610 | VEGETABLE PARCHMENT PAPER, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
480620 | GREASEPROOF PAPERS (AS MANUFACTURED), IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
480630 | TRACING PAPERS, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
480640 | GLASSINE AND OTHER GLAZED TRANSPARENT OR TRANSLUCENT PAPERS, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
480700 | COMPOSITE PAPER & PAPERBOARD (MADE BY STICKING FLAT LAYERS OF PAPER/PBRD TOGETHER W/AN ADHESIVE), NOT SURFACE-COATED OR IMPREGNATED, IN ROLLS/SHEETS.
480810 | CORRUGATED PAPER AND PAPERBOARD, WHETHER OR NOT PERFORATED, NESOI, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
480840 | KRAFT PAPER IN ROLLS OR SHEETS, CREPED OR CRINKLED, WHETHER OR NOT EMBOSSED OR PERFORATED, NESOI.
480890 | PAPER AND PAPERBOARD, NESOI, CREPED, CRINKLED, EMBOSSED OR PERFORATED, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
480920 | SELF-COPY PAPER, IN ROLLS OVER 36 CM WIDE OR RECTANGULAR SHEETS WITH AT LEAST ONE SIDE OVER 36 CM IN UNFOLDED STATE.
480990 | COPYING OR TRANSFER PAPERS, COATED OR IMPREGNATED, INCLUDING FOR DUPLICATOR STENCILS OR OFFSET PLATES, IN ROLLS OR RECTANGULAR SHEETS OVER 36CM WIDE.
481013 | PAPER & PAPERBOARD,FOR WRITING/PRINTING/GRAPHIC PURPOSE, CLAY COATED, NOT OVER 10% MECH FIBERS,IN ROLLS.
481014 | PAPER & PAPERBOARD,FOR WRITING/PRINTING/GRAPHIC PURPOSE,CLAY COATED, IN SHEETS 1 SIDE NOT EXCEEDING 435 MM OTHER <297MM, UNFOLDED.
481019 | PAPER & PAPERBOARD, FOR WRITING/PRINTING/GRAPHIC PURPOSE, CLAY COATED, NOT OVER 10% MECH FIBERS, NESOI.
481022 | PAPER, LIGHT-WEIGHT COATED, USED FOR WRITING, PRINTING OR OTHER GRAPHIC PURPOSES, OVER 10% (WT.) MECHANICAL FIBERS, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
481029 | PAPER AND PAPERBOARD FOR WRITING, PRINTING OR OTHER GRAPHIC PURPOSES, OVER 10% (WT.) MECHANICAL FIBERS, CLAY COATED NESOI, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
481031 | KRAFT PAPER AND PAPERBOARD (NOT FOR WRITING, ETC.), OVER 95% WOOD FIBER BY CHEMICAL PROCESS, NOT OVER 150 G/M2, CLAY COATED, BLEACHED, IN ROLLS ETC.
481032 | KRAFT PAPER AND PAPERBOARD (NOT FOR WRITING, ETC.), OVER 95% WOOD FIBER BY CHEMICAL PROCESS, OVER 150 G/M2, CLAY COATED, BLEACHED, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
481039 | KRAFT PAPER AND PAPERBOARD (NOT FOR WRITING, PRINTING OR OTHER GRAPHIC PURPOSES), CLAY COATED, UNBLEACHED, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
481092 | PAPER AND PAPERBOARD (OTHER THAN KRAFT OR GRAPHIC), MULTI-PLY, CLAY COATED, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
481099 | PAPER AND PAPERBOARD (OTHER THAN KRAFT OR GRAPHIC), NESOI, CLAY COATED, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
481110 | PAPER AND PAPERBOARD COATED OR IMPREGNATED WITH TAR, BITUMEN OR ASPHALT, NESOI, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
481151 | PAPER & PAPERBOARD, COATED, IMPREGNATED OR COVERED WITH PLASTICS (EXCLUDING ADHESIVES), BLEACHED, WEIGHING MORE THAN 150 G/M2.
481159 | PAPER & PAPERBOARD, COATED IMPREGNATED OR COVERED WITH PLASTICS .(EXCLUDING ADHESIVES), NESOI
481160 | PAPER & PAPERBOARD, COATED, IMPREGNATED OR COVERED WITH WAX, PARAFIN, STEAIN, OIL, OR GLYCEROL.
481190 | PAPER, PAPERBOARD, CELLULOSE WADDING AND WEBS OF CELLULOSE FIBERS, COATED, IMPREGNATED, ETC. NESOI, IN ROLLS OR SHEETS.
481490 | WALLPAPER AND SIMILAR WALLCOVERING, NESOI; WINDOW TRANSPARENCIES OF PAPER.
481920 | FOLDING CARTONS, BOXES AND CASES, OF NON-CORRUGATED PAPER OR PAPERBOARD USED IN OFFICES, SHOPS, OR THE LIKE.
482210 | BOBBINS, SPOOLS, COPS AND SIMILAR SUPPORTS OF PAPER PULP, PAPER OR PAPERBOARD OF A KIND USED FOR WINDING TEXTILE YARN.
482290 | BOBBINS, SPOOLS, COPS AND SIMILAR SUPPORTS OF PAPER PULP, PAPER OR PAPERBOARD, NESOI.
482320 | FILTER PAPER AND PAPERBOARD, CUT TO SIZE OR SHAPE.
482340 | ROLLS, SHEETS AND DIALS, PRINTED FOR SELF-RECORDING APPARATUS, CUT TO SIZE OR SHAPE, OF PAPER OR PAPERBOARD.
482361 | TRAYS, DISHES, PLATES, CUPS AND THE LIKE OF PAPER OR PAPERBOARD, OF BAMBOO.
482369 | TRAYS, DISHES, PLATES, CUPS AND THE LIKE, OF PAPER OR PAPERBOARD, NES.
482370 | MOLDED OR PRESSED ARTICLES OF PAPER PULP.
482390 | ARTICLES OF PAPER PULP, PAPER, PAPERBOARD, CELLULOSE WADDING OR WEBS OF CELLULOSE FIBERS, NESOI.
490600 | PLANS AND DRAWINGS FOR ARCHITECTURAL, ENGINEERING, INDUSTRIAL, COMMERCIAL, TOPOGRAPHICAL OR SIMILAR PURPOSES, ORIGINALS AND SPECIFIC REPRODUCTIONS.
510510 | WOOL, CARDED.
510521 | WOOL, COMBED, IN FRAGMENTS.
510529 | WOOL TOPS AND OTHER COMBED WOOL, NESOI.
510531 | WOOL AND FINE ANIMAL HAIR, OF KASHMIR (CASHMERE) GOATS, CARDED OR COMBED (INCLUDING COMBED WOOL IN FRAGMENTS).
510539 | FINE ANIMAL HAIR, CARDED OR COMBED, NESOI.
510540 | COARSE ANIMAL HAIR, CARDED OR COMBED.
510610 | YARN OF CARDED WOOL, NOT PUT UP FOR RETAIL SALE, CONTAINING 85% OR MORE BY WEIGHT OF WOOL.
510620 | YARN OF CARDED WOOL, NOT PUT UP FOR RETAIL SALE, CONTAINING LESS THAN 85% BY WEIGHT OF WOOL.
510710 | YARN OF COMBED WOOL, NOT PUT UP FOR RETAIL SALE, CONTAINING 85% OR MORE BY WEIGHT OF WOOL.
510720 | YARN OF COMBED WOOL, NOT PUT UP FOR RETAIL SALE, CONTAINING LESS THAN 85% BY WEIGHT OF WOOL.
511211 | WOVEN FABRICS CONTAINING 85% OR MORE BY WEIGHT OF COMBED WOOL OR FINE ANIMAL HAIR, NOT OVER 200 G/M2.
511219 | WOVEN FABRICS CONTAINING 85% OR MORE BY WEIGHT OF COMBED WOOL OR FINE ANIMAL HAIR, NESOI.
511220 | WOVEN FABRICS OF COMBED WOOL OR OF FINE ANIMAL HAIR, NESOI, MIXED MAINLY OR SOLELY WITH MANMADE FILAMENTS.
511230 | WOVEN FABRICS OF COMBED WOOL OR OF FINE ANIMAL HAIR, NESOI, MIXED MAINLY OR SOLELY WITH MANMADE STAPLE FIBERS.
511290 | WOVEN FABRICS OF COMBED WOOL OR FINE ANIMAL HAIR, NESOI.
520511 | COTTON YARN NESOI, 85% OR MORE BY WEIGHT OF COTTON, NOT PUT UP FOR RETAIL SALE, SINGLE UNCOMBED YARN, NOT OVER 14 NM.
520512 | COTTON YARN NESOI, 85% OR MORE BY WEIGHT OF COTTON, NOT PUT UP FOR RETAIL SALE, SINGLE UNCOMBED YARN, OVER 14 NM BUT NOT OVER 43 NM.
520513 | COTTON YARN NESOI, 85% OR MORE BY WEIGHT OF COTTON, NOT PUT UP FOR RETAIL SALE, SINGLE UNCOMBED YARN, OVER 43 NM BUT NOT OVER 52 NM.
520514 | COTTON YARN NESOI, 85% OR MORE BY WEIGHT OF COTTON, NOT PUT UP FOR RETAIL SALE, SINGLE UNCOMBED YARN, OVER 52 NM BUT NOT OVER 80 NM.
520515 | COTTON YARN NESOI, 85% OR MORE BY WEIGHT OF COTTON, NOT PUT UP FOR RETAIL SALE, SINGLE UNCOMBED YARN, OVER 80 NM.
520521 | COTTON YARN NESOI, 85% OR MORE BY WEIGHT OF COTTON, NOT PUT UP FOR RETAIL SALE, SINGLE COMBED YARN, NOT OVER 14 NM.
520522 | COTTON YARN NESOI, 85% OR MORE BY WEIGHT OF COTTON, NOT PUT UP FOR RETAIL SALE, SINGLE COMBED YARN, OVER 14 NM BUT NOT OVER 43 NM.
520523 | COTTON YARN NESOI, 85% OR MORE BY WEIGHT OF COTTON, NOT PUT UP FOR RETAIL SALE, SINGLE COMBED YARN, OVER 43 NM BUT NOT OVER 52 NM.
520524 | COTTON YARN NESOI, 85% OR MORE BY WEIGHT OF COTTON, NOT PUT UP FOR RETAIL SALE, SINGLE COMBED YARN, OVER 52 NM BUT NOT OVER 80 NM.
520526 | COTTON YARN (OTH THAN SEWING THREAD) 85% OR MORE BY WGT COTTON, NT FOR RETAIL SALE: SINGLE YARN OF COMBED FIBER > 80NM AND LESS THAN 94NM.
520527 | COTTON YARN (OTH THAN SEWING THREAD) 85% OR MORE BY WGT COTTON, NT FOR RETAIL SALE: SINGLE YARN OF COMBED FIBER > 94NM BUT LESS THAN 120NM.
520528 | COTTON YARN (OTH THAN SEWING THREAD) 85% OR MORE BY WGT COTTON, NT FOR RETAIL SALE: SINGLE YARN OF COMBED FIBER GREATER THAN 120NM.
520531 | COTTON YARN NESOI, 85% OR MORE (WT.) COTTON, NOT FOR RETAIL SALE, MULTIPLE OR CABLED UNCOMBED YARN, NOT OVER 14 NM PER SINGLE YARN.
520532 | COTTON YARN NESOI, 85% OR MORE (WT.) COTTON, NOT FOR RETAIL SALE, MULTIPLE OR CABLED UNCOMBED YARN, OVER 14 NM BUT NOT OVER 43 NM PER SINGLE YARN.
520533 | COTTON YARN NESOI, 85% OR MORE (WT.) COTTON, NOT FOR RETAIL SALE, MULTIPLE OR CABLED UNCOMBED YARN, OVER 43 NM BUT NOT OVER 52 NM PER SINGLE YARN.
520534 | COTTON YARN NESOI, 85% OR MORE (WT.) COTTON, NOT FOR RETAIL SALE, MULTIPLE OR CABLED UNCOMBED YARN, OVER 52 NM BUT NOT OVER 80 NM PER SINGLE YARN.
520535 | COTTON YARN NESOI, 85% OR MORE (WT.) COTTON, NOT FOR RETAIL SALE, MULTIPLE OR CABLED UNCOMBED YARN, OVER 80 NM PER SINGLE YARN.
520541 | COTTON YARN NESOI, 85% OR MORE (WT.) COTTON, NOT FOR RETAIL SALE, MULTIPLE OR CABLED COMBED YARN, NOT OVER 14 NM PER SINGLE YARN.
520542 | COTTON YARN NESOI, 85% OR MORE (WT.) COTTON, NOT FOR RETAIL SALE, MULTIPLE OR CABLED COMBED YARN, OVER 14 NM BUT NOT OVER 43 NM PER SINGLE YARN.
520543 | COTTON YARN NESOI, 85% OR MORE (WT.) COTTON, NOT FOR RETAIL SALE, MULTIPLE OR CABLED COMBED YARN, OVER 43 NM BUT NOT OVER 52 NM PER SINGLE YARN.
520544 | COTTON YARN NESOI, 85% OR MORE (WT.) COTTON, NOT FOR RETAIL SALE, MULTIPLE OR CABLED COMBED YARN, OVER 52 NM BUT NOT OVER 80 NM PER SINGLE YARN.
520546 | COTTON YARN (NOT SEWING THREAD) 85% OR > BY WGT OF COTTON NT FOR RET AIL SALE: MULTI OR CBLD YRN OF COMBED FIBERS > 80NM BUT < 94NM.
520547 | COTTON YARN (NOT SEWING THREAD) 85% OR > BY WGT OF COTTON NT FOR RET AIL SALE: MULTI OR CBLD YRN OF COMBED FIBERS > 94NM BUT < 120NM.
520548 | COTTON YARN (NOT SEWING THREAD) 85% OR > BY WGT OF COTTON NT FOR RET AIL SALE: MULTI OR CBLD YRN OF COMBED FIBERS > 120NM.
520642 | COTTON YARN NESOI, LESS THAN 85% (WT.) COTTON, NOT FOR RETAIL SALE, MULTIPLE OR CABLED COMBED YARN, OVER 14 NM BUT NOT OVER 43 NM PER SINGLE YARN.
520911 | WOVEN FABRICS OF COTTON, 85% OR MORE COTTON BY WEIGHT, UNBLEACHED, PLAIN WEAVE, WEIGHING OVER 200 G/M2.
521111 | WOVEN FABRICS OF COTTON, LESS THAN 85% COTTON BY WEIGHT, MIXED MAINLY WITH MANMADE FIBERS, UNBLEACHED, PLAIN WEAVE, WEIGHING OVER 200 G/M2.
521112 | WOVEN FABRICS OF COTTON, UNDER 85% COTTON (WT.) MIXED MAINLY WITH MANMADE FIBERS, UNBLEACHED, 3-THREAD, 4-THREAD OR CROSS TWILL, OVER 200 G/M2.
521119 | WOVEN FABRICS OF COTTON, LESS THAN 85% COTTON BY WEIGHT, MIXED MAINLY WITH MANMADE FIBERS, UNBLEACHED, EXCEPT PLAIN WEAVE, NESOI, OVER 200 G/M2.
521120 | WOVEN FABRICS OF COTTON, CONTAINING LESS THAN 85% WT COTTON, MIXED W/MANMADE FIBERS, WEIGHING MORE THAN 200 G/M2, BLEACHED, PLAIN WEAVE.
521131 | WOVEN FABRICS OF COTTON, LESS THAN 85% COTTON BY WEIGHT, MIXED MAINLY WITH MANMADE FIBERS, DYED, PLAIN WEAVE, WEIGHING OVER 200 G/M2.
521132 | WOVEN FABRICS OF COTTON, UNDER 85% COTTON (WT.) MIXED MAINLY WITH MANMADE FIBERS, DYED, 3-THREAD, 4-THREAD OR CROSS TWILL, WEIGHING OVER 200 G/M2.
521139 | WOVEN FABRICS OF COTTON, LESS THAN 85% COTTON BY WEIGHT, MIXED MAINLY WITH MANMADE FIBERS, DYED, EXCEPT PLAIN WEAVE, NESOI, WEIGHING OVER 200 G/M2.
521141 | WOVEN FABRICS OF COTTON, LESS THAN 85% COTTON BY WEIGHT, MIXED MAINLY WITH MANMADE FIBERS, DIFFERENT COLORED YARNS, PLAIN WEAVE, OVER 200 G/M2.
521142 | WOVEN FABRICS OF COTTON, LESS THAN 85% COTTON BY WEIGHT, MIXED MAINLY WITH MANMADE FIBERS, DENIM, WEIGHING OVER 200 G/M2.
521143 | WOVEN FABRICS OF COTTON, UNDER 85% COTTON (WT.) MIXED MAINLY WITH MANMADE FIBERS, DIFFERENT COLORED YARNS, 3-, 4-THREAD OR CROSS TWILL, OVER 200 G/M2.
521149 | WOVEN FABRICS OF COTTON, UNDER 85% COTTON (WT.) MIXED MAINLY WITH MANMADE FIBERS, DIFFERENT COLORED YARNS, EXCEPT PLAIN WEAVE, NESOI, OVER 200 G/M2.
521151 | WOVEN FABRICS OF COTTON, LESS THAN 85% COTTON BY WEIGHT, MIXED MAINLY WITH MANMADE FIBERS, PRINTED, PLAIN WEAVE, WEIGHING OVER 200 G/M2.
521152 | WOVEN FABRICS OF COTTON, UNDER 85% COTTON (WT.) MIXED MAINLY WITH MANMADE FIBERS, PRINTED, 3-THREAD, 4-THREAD OR CROSS TWILL, WEIGHING OVER 200 G/M2.
521159 | WOVEN FABRICS OF COTTON, LESS THAN 85% COTTON BY WEIGHT, MIXED MAINLY WITH MANMADE FIBERS, PRINTED, EXCEPT PLAIN WEAVE, NESOI, WEIGHING OVER 200 G/M2.
530810 | YARN OF COCONUT TEXTILE FIBERS (COIR YARN).
530820 | YARN OF TRUE HEMP TEXTILE FIBERS.
530890 | YARN OF VEGETABLE TEXTILE FIBERS, NESOI.
540249 | SYNTHETIC FILAMENT YARN EXCEPT SEWING THREAD, NOT FOR RETAIL SALE, SINGLE YARN NESOI, NOT OVER 50 TURNS PER METER IF TWISTED, OF YARNS NESOI.
540263 | POLYPROPYLENE YARN, MUTIPLE (FOLEDED) OR CABLES, NOT FOR RETAIL SALE,NESOI.
540310 | ARTIFICIAL FILAMENT YARN EXCEPT SEWING THREAD, NOT FOR RETAIL SALE, HIGH TENACITY YARN OF VISCOSE RAYON.
540331 | ARTIFICIAL FILAMENT YARN EXCEPT SEWING THREAD, NOT FOR RETAIL SALE, SINGLE YARN NESOI, NOT OVER 120 TURNS PER METER IF TWISTED, OF VISCOSE RAYON.
540332 | ARTIFICIAL FILAMENT YARN EXCEPT SEWING THREAD, NOT FOR RETAIL SALE, SINGLE YARN NESOI, TWISTED WITH OVER 120 TURNS PER METER, OF VISCOSE RAYON.
540333 | ARTIFICIAL FILAMENT YARN EXCEPT SEWING THREAD, NOT FOR RETAIL SALE, SINGLE YARN NESOI, OF CELLULOSE ACETATE.
540339 | ARTIFICIAL FILAMENT YARN EXCEPT SEWING THREAD, NOT FOR RETAIL SALE, SINGLE YARN NESOI, OF YARNS NESOI.
540341 | ARTIFICIAL FILAMENT YARN EXCEPT SEWING THREAD, NOT FOR RETAIL SALE, YARN NESOI, MULTIPLE OR CABLED, OF VISCOSE RAYON.
540342 | ARTIFICIAL FILAMENT YARN EXCEPT SEWING THREAD, NOT FOR RETAIL SALE, YARN NESOI, MULTIPLE OR CABLED, OF CELLULOSE ACETATE.
540349 | ARTIFICIAL FILAMENT YARN EXCEPT SEWING THREAD, NOT FOR RETAIL SALE, YARN NESOI, MULTIPLE OF CABLED, OF YARNS NESOI.
540411 | SYNTHETIC ELASTOMERIC MONOFILAMENT OF 67 DECITEX OR MORE AND OF WHICH NO CROSS-SECTIONAL DIMENSION EXCEEDS 1 MM, NESOI.
540412 | POLYPROPYLENE MONOFILAMENT OF 67 DECITEX OR MORE AND OF WHICH NO CROSS-SECTIONAL DIMENSION EXCEEDS 1 MM, NESOI.
540419 | SYNTHETIC MONOFILAMENT OF 67 DECITEX AND OF WHICH NO CROSS-SECTIONAL DIMENSION EXCEEDS 1 MM, NESOI.
540490 | SYNTHETIC STRIP AND THE LIKE (FOR EXAMPLE, ARTIFICIAL STRAW) OF SYNTHETIC TEXTILE MATERIALS OF AN APPARENT WIDTH NOT OVER 5 MM.
540730 | WOVEN FABRICS OF SYNTHETIC FILAMENT YARN SPECIFICALLY BONDED IN LAYERS.
550111 | SYNTHETIC FILAMENT TOW OF NYLON OR OTHER POLYAMIDES.
550119 | SYNTHETIC FILAMENT TOW OF NYLON OR OTHER POLYAMIDES.
550120 | SYNTHETIC FILAMENT TOW OF POLYESTERS.
550130 | SYNTHETIC FILAMENT TOW, ACRYLIC OR MODACRYLIC.
550140 | SYNTHETIC FILAMENT TOW, OF POLYPROPYLENE.
550190 | SYNTHETIC FILAMENT TOW, NESOI.
550210 | ARTIFICIAL FILAMENT TOW OF CELLULOSE ACETATE.
550290 | ARTIFICIAL FILAMENT TOW OTHER THEN OF CELLULOSE ACETATE.
550311 | STAPLE FIBERS, OF ARAMIDS, NOT CARDED, COMBED OR OTHERWISE PROCESSED FOR SPINNING.
550319 | STAPLE FIBERS, OF NYLONS OR OTHER POLYAMIDES, EXCLUDING ARAMIDS, NOT CARDED, COMBED OR OTHERWISE PROCESSED FOR SPINNING.
550320 | SYNTHETIC STAPLE FIBERS, NOT CARDED, COMBED OR OTHERWISE PROCESSED FOR SPINNING, OF POLYESTERS.
550330 | SYNTHETIC STAPLE FIBERS, NOT CARDED, COMBED OR OTHERWISE PROCESSED FOR SPINNING, ACRYLIC OR MODACRYLIC.
550340 | SYNTHETIC STAPLE FIBERS, NOT CARDED, COMBED OR OTHERWISE PROCESSED FOR SPINNING, POLYPROPYLENE.
550390 | SYNTHETIC STAPLE FIBERS, NOT CARDED, COMBED OR OTHERWISE PROCESSED FOR SPINNING, NESOI.
550490 | ARTIFICIAL STAPLE FIBERS, NOT CARDED, COMBED OR OTHERWISED PROCESSED FOR SPINNING, OTHER THAN VISCOSE RAYON.
550610 | SYNTHETIC STAPLE FIBERS, CARDED, COMBED OR OTHERWISE PROCESSED FOR SPINNING, OF NYLON OR OTHER POLYAMIDES.
550620 | SYNTHETIC STAPLE FIBERS, CARDED, COMBED OR OTHERWISE PROCESSED FOR SPINNING, OF POLYESTERS.
550630 | SYNTHETIC STAPLE FIBERS, CARDED, COMBED OR OTHERWISE PROCESSED FOR SPINNING, ACRYLIC OR MODACRYLIC.
550640 | SYNTHETIC STAPLE FIBERS, CARDED, COMBED OR OTHERWISE PROCESSED FOR SPINNING OF POLYPROPYLENE.
550690 | SYNTHETIC STAPLE FIBERS, CARDED, COMBED OR OTHERWISE PROCESSED FOR SPINNING, NESOI.
550700 | ARTIFICAL STAPLE FIBERS, CARDED, COMBED OR OTHERWISE PROCESSED FOR SPINNING.
551221 | WOVEN FABRICS OF SYNTHETIC STAPLE FIBERS, CONTAINING 85% OR MORE BY WEIGHT OF ACRYLIC OR MODACRYLIC STAPLE FIBERS, UNBLEACHED OR BLEACHED.
551299 | WOVEN FABRICS OF SYNTHETIC STAPLE FIBERS, CONTAINING 85% OR MORE BY WEIGHT OF SYNTHETIC STAPLE FIBERS NESOI, PRINTED, DYED OR COLORED.
551611 | WOVEN FABRICS OF ARTIFICIAL STAPLE FIBERS, CONTAINING 85% OR MORE BY WEIGHT OF SUCH FIBERS, UNBLEACHED OR BLEACHED.
551612 | WOVEN FABRICS OF ARTIFICIAL STAPLE FIBERS, CONTAINING 85% OR MORE BY WEIGHT OF SUCH FIBERS, DYED.
551613 | WOVEN FABRICS OF ARTIFICIAL STAPLE FIBERS, CONTAINING 85% OR MORE BY WEIGHT OF SUCH FIBERS, OF DIFFERENT COLORED YARNS.
551614 | WOVEN FABRICS OF ARTIFICIAL STAPLE FIBERS, CONTAINING 85% OR MORE BY WEIGHT OF SUCH FIBERS, PRINTED.
551621 | WOVEN FABRICS OF ARTIFICIAL STAPLE FIBERS, CONTAINING UNDER 85% (WT.) OF SUCH FIBERS, MIXED WITH MANMADE FILAMENTS, UNBLEACHED OR BLEACHED.
551622 | WOVEN FABRICS OF ARTIFICIAL STAPLE FIBERS, CONTAINING UNDER 85% (WT.) OF SUCH FIBERS, MIXED WITH MANMADE FILAMENTS, DYED.
551623 | WOVEN FABRICS OF ARTIFICIAL STAPLE FIBERS, CONTAINING UNDER 85% (WT.) OF SUCH FIBERS, MIXED WITH MANMADE FILAMENTS, OF DIFFERENT COLORED YARNS.
551624 | WOVEN FABRICS OF ARTIFICIAL STAPLE FIBERS, CONTAINING UNDER 85% (WT.) OF SUCH FIBERS, MIXED WITH MANMADE FILAMENTS, PRINTED.
551631 | WOVEN FABRICS OF ARTIFICIAL STAPLE FIBERS, CONTAINING UNDER 85% (WT.) OF SUCH FIBERS, MIXED WITH WOOL OR FINE ANIMAL HAIR, UNBLEACHED OR BLEACHED.
551632 | WOVEN FABRICS OF ARTIFICIAL STAPLE FIBERS, CONTAINING UNDER 85% (WT.) OF SUCH FIBERS, MIXED WITH WOOL OR FINE ANIMAL HAIR, DYED.
551633 | WOVEN FABRICS OF ARTIFICIAL STAPLE FIBERS, CONTAINING UNDER 85% (WT.) OF SUCH FIBERS, MIXED WITH WOOL OR FINE ANIMAL HAIR, OF DIFFERENT COLORED YARNS.
551634 | WOVEN FABRICS OF ARTIFICIAL STAPLE FIBERS, CONTAINING UNDER 85% (WT.) OF SUCH FIBERS, MIXED WITH WOOL OR FINE ANIMAL HAIR, PRINTED.
551641 | WOVEN FABRICS OF ARTIFICIAL STAPLE FIBERS, CONTAINING UNDER 85% (WT.) OF SUCH FIBERS, MIXED WITH COTTON, UNBLEACHED OR BLEACHED.
551642 | WOVEN FABRICS OF ARTIFICIAL STAPLE FIBERS, CONTAINING UNDER 85% (WT.) OF SUCH FIBERS, MIXED WITH COTTON, DYED.
551643 | WOVEN FABRICS OF ARTIFICIAL STAPLE FIBERS, CONTAINING UNDER 85% (WT.) OF SUCH FIBERS, MIXED WITH COTTON, OF DIFFERENT COLORED YARNS.
551644 | WOVEN FABRICS OF ARTIFICIAL STAPLE FIBERS, CONTAINING UNDER 85% (WT.) OF SUCH FIBERS, MIXED WITH COTTON, PRINTED.
551691 | WOVEN FABRICS OF ARTIFICIAL STAPLE FIBERS, CONTAINING UNDER 85% (WT.) OF SUCH FIBERS, MIXED WITH OTHER FIBERS NESOI, UNBLEACHED OR BLEACHED.
551692 | WOVEN FABRICS OF ARTIFICIAL STAPLE FIBERS, CONTAINING UNDER 85% (WT.) OF SUCH FIBERS, MIXED WITH OTHER FIBERS NESOI, DYED.
551693 | WOVEN FABRICS OF ARTIFICIAL STAPLE FIBERS, CONTAINING UNDER 85% (WT.) OF SUCH FIBERS, MIXED WITH OTHER FIBERS NESOI, OF DIFFERENT COLORED YARNS.
551694 | WOVEN FABRICS OF ARTIFICIAL STAPLE FIBERS, CONTAINING UNDER 85% (WT.) OF SUCH FIBERS, MIXED WITH OTHER FIBERS NESOI, PRINTED.
560129 | WADDING AND ARTICLES OF WADDING NESOI, OF TEXTILE MATERIALS OTHER THAN COTTON OR MANMADE FIBERS.
560130 | TEXTILE FLOCK (TEXTILE FIBERS NOT EXCEEDING 5 MM IN LENGTH) AND DUST AND MILL NEPS.
560410 | RUBBER THREAD AND CORD, TEXTILE COVERED.
560490 | MANMADE TEXTILE YARN OF 67 DECITEX OR MORE, NO CROSS-SECTIONAL DIMENSION OVER 1 MM AND STRIP NOT OVER 5 MM WIDE, RUBBER OR PLASTICS COATED ETC., NESOI.
560500 | METALLIZED MANMADE TEXTILE YARN OF 67 DECITEX OR MORE, NO CROSS-SECTION OVER 1 MM, GIMPED OR NOT, AND STRIP NOT OVER 5 MM WIDE COMBINED WITH METAL.
560741 | BINDER OR BALER TWINE, WHETHER OR NOT PLAITED OR BRAIDED OR COATED ETC. WITH RUBBER OR PLASTICS, OF POLYETHYLENE OR POLYPROPYLENE.
580127 | WARP PILE FABRICS OF COTTON.
580300 | GAUZE, OTHER THAN NARROW FABRICS OF HEADING 5806.
580640 | NARROW FABRICS CONSISTING OF WARP WITHOUT WEFT ASSEMBLED BY MEANS OF AN ADHESIVE (BOLDUCS).
590110 | TEXTILE FABRICS COATED WITH GUM OR AMYLACEOUS SUBSTANCES, OF A KIND USED FOR THE OUTER COVERS OF BOOKS OR THE LIKE.
590190 | TRACING CLOTH; PREPARED PAINTING CANVAS; BUCKRAM AND SIMILAR STIFFENED TEXTILE FABRICS OF A KIND USED FOR HAT FOUNDATIONS.
590500 | TEXTILE WALL COVERINGS.
590800 | TEXTILE WICKS FOR LAMPS, STOVES, LIGHTERS, CANDLES ETC; GAS MANTLES AND TUBULAR KNITTED GAS MANTLE FABRIC, WHETHER OR NOT IMPREGNATED.
591000 | TRANSMISSION OR CONVEYOR BELTS OR BELTING, OF TEXTILE MATERIAL, WHETHER OR NOT REINFORCED WITH METAL OR OTHER MATERIAL OR COATED IMPREG WITH PLASTICS.
591110 | TEXTILE FABRICS, FELT AND FELT-LINED WOVEN WITH LAYERS OF RUBBER, LEATHER, ETC. FOR CARD CLOTHING, AND SIMILAR FABRIC FOR OTHER TECHNICAL USES.
591131 | TEXTILE FABRICS AND FELTS, ENDLESS OR FITTED WITH LINKING DEVICES, OF A KIND USED IN PAPERMAKING OR SIMILAR MACHINES, WEIGHING LESS THAN 650 G/M2.
591132 | TEXTILE FABRICS AND FELTS, ENDLESS OR FITTED WITH LINKING DEVICES, OF A KIND USED IN PAPERMAKING OR SIMILAR MACHINES, WEIGHING 650 G/M2 OR MORE.
591140 | TEXTILE STRAINING CLOTH OF A KIND USED IN OIL PRESSES OR THE LIKE, INCLUDING HUMAN HAIR.
591190 | TEXTILE PRODUCTS AND ARTICLES FOR TECHNICAL USES NESOI.
600199 | PILE FABRICS NESOI, KNITTED OR CROCHETED, OF TEXTILE MATERIALS NESOI.
600310 | KNIT/CROCHETED FABRICS OF A WIDTH NOT EXCEEDING 30 CM, OTHER THAN OF HEADINGS 6001 OR 6002, OF WOOL OR FINE ANIMAL HAIR.
600320 | KNIT/CROCHETED FABRICS OF A WIDTH NOT EXCEEDING 30 CM, OTHER THAN OF HEADINGS 6001 OR 6002, OF COTTON.
600330 | KNIT OR CROCHETED FABRICS OF A WIDTH NOT EXCEEDING 30CM, OF SYNTHETIC FIBERS, OTHER THAN THOSE OF HEADING 6001 OR 6002.
600340 | KNIT OR CROCHETED FABRICS OF A WIDTH NOT EXCEEDING 30CM, OF ARTIFICIAL FIBERS, OTHER THAN THOSE OF HEADING 6001 OR 6002.
600390 | KNIT/CROCHETED FABRICS OF A WIDTH NOT EXCEEDING 30CM, OTHER THAN THOSE OF HEADING 6001 OR 6002, NESOI.
600536 | WARP KNIT FABRICS, OF SYNTHETIC FIBERS, OTHER, UNBLEACHED OR BLEACHED.
600544 | WARP KNIT FABRICS (INCLUDING THOSE MADE ON GALLOON KNITTING MACHINES) OF PRINTED ARTIFICIAL FIBERS.
600610 | KNITTED OR CROCHETED FABRICS NESOI, OF WOOL OR FINE ANIMAL HAIR.
630900 | WORN CLOTHING AND OTHER WORN TEXTILE ARTICLES.
680292 | WORKED MONUMENTAL OR BUILDING STONE NESOI, OF CALCAREOUS STONE NESOI.
680423 | MILLSTONES, GRINDSTONES, GRINDING WHEELS AND THE LIKE NESOI, OF NATURAL STONE.
680520 | ABRASIVE POWDER OR GRAIN, ON A BASE OF PAPER OR PAPERBOARD ONLY.
680610 | SLAG WOOL, ROCK WOOL AND SIMILAR MINERAL WOOLS (INCLUDING INTERMIXTURES THEREOF), IN BULK, SHEETS OR ROLLS.
680620 | EXFOLIATED VERMICULITE, EXPANDED CLAYS, FOAMED SLAG AND SIMILAR EXPANDED MINERAL MATERIALS (INCLUDING INTERMIXTURES THEREOF).
680690 | MIXTURES AND ARTICLES OF HEAT-INSULATING, SOUND-INSULATING OR SOUND-ABSORBING MINERAL MATERIALS NESOI.
680710 | ARTICLES OF ASPHALT OR OF SIMILAR MATERIAL (PETROLEUM BITUMEN OR COAL TAR PITCH ETC.), IN ROLLS.
680790 | ARTICLES OF ASPHALT OR OF SIMILAR MATERIAL (PETROLEUM BITUMEN OR COAL TAR PITCH ETC.) NESOI.
680919 | PANELS, SHEETS, TILES AND SIMILAR ARTICLES, NOT ORNAMENTED, OF PLASTER OR COMPOSITIONS BASED ON PLASTER, NESOI.
681091 | PREFABRICATED STRUCTURAL COMPONENTS FOR BUILDING OR CIVIL ENGINEERING MADE OF CEMENT, CONCRETE OR ARTIFICIAL STONE, WHETHER OR NOT REINFORCED.
681140 | ARTICLES OF ASBESTOS-CEMENT, OF CELLULOSE FIBER-CEMENT OR THE LIKE, CONTAINING ASBESTOS.
681181 | CORRUGATED SHEETS, OF CELLULOSE FIBER-CEMENT OR THE LIKE, NOT CONTAINING ASBESTOS.
681182 | SHEETS, PANELS, TILES AND SIMILAR ARTICLES, OF CELLULOSE FIBER-CEMENT OR THE LIKE, NOT CONTAINING ASBESTOS, EXCLUDING CORRUGATED SHEETS.
681189 | ARTICLES OF CELLULOSE FIBER-CEMENT OR THE LIKE, NOT CONTAINING ASBESTOS, NESOI.
681299 | ARTICLES OF FABRICATED ASBESTOS FIBERS AND ARTICLES OF ASBESTOS MIXTURES, NESOI.
681320 | FRICTION MATERIAL AND ARTICLES THEREOF, UNMOUNTED, WITH A BASIS OF ASBESTOS.
681381 | BRAKE LININGS AND PADS NOT OF ASBESTOS, OTHER MINERAL SUBSTANCES OR CELLULOSE.
681389 | FRICTION MATERIAL AND ARTICLES THEREOF (EXCEPT BRAKE LININGS OR PADS), UNMOUNTED, NOT CONTAINING ASBESTOS, OTHER MINERALSUBSTANCES OR OF CELLULOSE, NES.
681490 | WORKED MICA AND ARTICLES OF MICA, NESOI.
681511 | NONELECTRICAL ARTICLES OF GRAPHITE OR CARBON, NESOI.
690100 | BRICKS, BLOCKS, TILES AND OTHER CERAMIC GOODS OF SILICEOUS FOSSIL MEALS (INCLUDING KIESELGUHR, TRIPOLITE OR DIATOMITE) OR SIMILAR SILICEOUS EARTHS.
690410 | CERAMIC BUILDING BRICKS.
690510 | CERAMIC ROOFING TILES.
690590 | CERAMIC CHIMNEY POTS, COWLS, CHIMNEY LINERS, ARCHITECTURAL ORNAMENTS AND OTHER CERAMIC CONSTRUCTIONAL GOODS NESOI.
690600 | CERAMIC PIPES, CONDUITS, GUTTERING AND PIPE FITTINGS.
690722 | CERAMIC FLAGS AND PAVING, HEARTH OR WALL TILES, OF A WATER ABSORPTION COEFFICIENT BY WEIGHT EXCEEDING 0.5 BUT NOT EXCEEDING 10%.
690740 | FINISHING CERAMICS.
690919 | CERAMIC WARES FOR LABORATORY, CHEMICAL OR OTHER TECHNICAL USES, OF OTHER THAN PORCELAIN OR CHINA, NESOI.
690990 | CERAMIC TROUGHS, TUBS ETC. USED IN AGRICULTURE; CERAMIC POTS, JARS AND SIMILAR ARTICLES FOR THE CONVEYANCE OR PACKING OF GOODS.
700210 | GLASS BALLS (EXCEPT MICROSHERES NOT OVER 1 MM IN DIAMETER), UNWORKED.
700220 | GLASS RODS, UNWORKED.
700231 | TUBES OF FUSED QUARTZ OR OTHER FUSED SILICA, UNWORKED.
700232 | GLASS NESOI, HAVING A LINEAR COEFFICIENT OF EXPANSION NOT OVER 5X10-6 PER KELVIN WITHIN A TEMPERATURE RANGE OF 0 TO 300 DEGREES C, UNWORKED.
700239 | TUBES OF GLASS NESOI, UNWORKED.
700312 | CAST AND ROLLED GLASS, NONWIRED SHEETS, COLORED THROUGHOUT THE MASS, OPACIFIED, FLASHED, WITH AN ABSORBENT, REFLECTING OR NONREFLECTING LAYER.
700319 | CAST GLASS AND ROLLED GLASS, IN NONWIRED SHEETS NESOI (NOT BODY TINTED, OPACIFIED OR FLASHED AND WITHOUT AN ABSORBENT OR REFLECTING LAYER), UNWORKED.
700320 | CAST GLASS AND ROLLED GLASS, IN WIRED SHEETS, WHETHER OR NOT HAVING AN ABSORBENT OR REFLECTING LAYER, BUT NOT OTHERWISE WORKED.
700330 | CAST GLASS AND ROLLED GLASS, IN PROFILES, WHETHER OR NOT HAVING AN ABSORBENT OR REFLECTING LAYER, BUT NOT OTHERWISE WORKED.
700420 | GLASS, COLORED THROUGHOUT THE MASS, OPACIFIED, FLASHED OR AN ABSORBENT, REFLECTING OR NONREFLECTING LAYER, DRAWN OR BLOWN, SHEETS NOT OTHERWISE WORKED.
700490 | DRAWN GLASS AND BLOWN GLASS, IN SHEETS, WHETHER OR NOT HAVING AN ABSORBENT OR REFLECTING LAYER, BUT NOT OTHERWISE WORKED, NESOI.
700510 | FLOAT GLASS AND SURFACE GROUND OR POLISHED GLASS, IN SHEETS, NONWIRED, WITH AN ABSORBENT, REFLECTING OR NONREFLECTING LAYER, BUT NOT OTHERWISE WORKED.
700521 | FLOAT AND OTHER GLASS, IN NONWIRED SHEETS, COLORED THROUGHOUT THE MASS, OPACIFIED, FLASHED OR SURFACE GROUND, WITHOUT AN ABSORBENT OR REFLECTING LAYER.
700529 | FLOAT GLASS AND SURFACE GROUND OR POLISHED GLASS, IN NONWIRED SHEETS, NESOI.
700530 | FLOAT GLASS AND SURFACE GROUND OR POLISHED GLASS, IN WIRED SHEETS, WHETHER OR NOT HAVING AN ABSORBENT OR REFLECTING LAYER, BUT NOT OTHERWISE WORKED.
700711 | TOUGHENED (TEMPERED) SAFETY GLASS, OF SIZE AND SHAPE SUITABLE FOR INCORPORATION IN VEHICLES, AIRCRAFT, SPACECRAFT OR VESSELS.
700729 | LAMINATED SAFETY GLASS, NOT SUITABLE FOR INCORPORATION IN VEHICLES, AIRCRAFT, SPACECRAFT OR VESSELS.
701110 | GLASS ENVELOPES, OPEN, AND GLASS PARTS THEREOF, WITHOUT FITTINGS, FOR ELECTRIC LIGHTING.
701911 | CHOPPED STRANDS OF GLASS FIBERS NOT OVER 50 MM LONG.
701912 | GLASS FIBER ROVINGS.
701913 | GLASS FIBERS (INCLUDING GLASS WOOL) AND ARTICLES THEREOF (FOR EXAMPLE, YARN, WOVEN FABRICS), N.E.S.O.I.
701990 | GLASS FIBERS AND ARTICLES THEREOF NESOI.
720110 | NONALLOY PIG IRON CONTAINING 0.5% (WT.) OR LESS PHOSPHORUS, IN PRIMARY FORMS.
720120 | NONALLOY PIG IRON CONTAINING MORE THAN 0.5% (WT.) PHOSPHORUS, IN PRIMARY FORMS.
720150 | ALLOY PIG IRON; SPIEGELEISEN, IN PRIMARY FORMS.
720211 | FERROMANGANESE, CONTAINING MORE THAN 2% (WT.) CARBON.
720219 | FERROMANGANESE, CONTAINING 2% (WT.) OR LESS CARBON.
720221 | FERROSILICON, CONTAINING MORE THAN 55% (WT.) SILICON.
720229 | FERROSILICON, CONTAINING 55% (WT.) OR LESS SILICON.
720230 | FERROSILICON MANGANESE.
720241 | FERROCHROMIUM, CONTAINING MORE THAN 4% (WT.) CARBON.
720249 | FERROCHROMIUM, CONTAINING 4% (WT.) OR LESS CARBON.
720250 | FERROSILICON CHROMIUM.
720260 | FERRONICKEL.
720270 | FERROMOLYBDENUM.
720280 | FERROTUNGSTEN AND FERROSILICON TUNGSTEN.
720291 | FERROTITANIUM AND FERROSILICON TITANIUM.
720292 | FERROVANADIUM.
720293 | FERRONIOBIUM.
720299 | FERROALLOYS, NESOI.
720310 | FERROUS PRODUCTS OBTAINED BY DIRECT REDUCTION OF IRON ORE.
720390 | SPONGY FERROUS PRODUCTS NESOI, IN LUMPS, PELLETS OR SIMILAR FORMS; IRON WITH MINIMUM PURITY OF 99.94% (WT.), IN LUMPS, PELLETS OR SIMILAR FORMS.
720410 | CAST IRON WASTE AND SCRAP.
720421 | STAINLESS STEEL WASTE AND SCRAP.
720429 | ALLOY STEEL WASTE AND SCRAP, OTHER THAN STAINLESS.
720430 | TINNED IRON OR STEEL WASTE AND SCRAP.
720441 | FERROUS WASTE AND SCRAP NESOI, TURNINGS, SHAVINGS, CHIPS, MILLING WASTE, SAWDUST, FILINGS, TRIMMINGS AND STAMPINGS, WHETHER OR NOT IN BUNDLES.
720449 | FERROUS WASTE AND SCRAP, NESOI.
720450 | REMELTING SCRAP INGOTS OF IRON OR STEEL.
720510 | IRON OR STEEL GRANULES.
720521 | ALLOY STEEL POWDERS.
720529 | IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL POWDERS.
720610 | IRON AND NONALLOY STEEL INGOTS.
720690 | IRON AND NONALLOY STEEL IN PRIMARY FORMS, OTHER THAN INGOTS.
720711 | SEMIFINISHED PRODUCTS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, UNDER 0.25% (WT.) CARBON, RECTANGULAR OR SQUARE CROSS SECTION, WIDTH LESS THAN TWICE THE THICKNESS.
720712 | SEMIFINISHED PRODUCTS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, UNDER 0.25% (WT.) CARBON, RECTANGULAR CROSS SECTION, WIDTH NOT LESS THAN TWICE THE THICKNESS.
720719 | SEMIFINISHED PRODUCTS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, UNDER 0.25% (WT.) CARBON, CROSS SECTION OTHER THAN RECTANGULAR, NESOI.
720720 | SEMIFINISHED PRODUCTS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, CONTAINING 0.25% (WT.) OR MORE OF CARBON.
720810 | FLAT-ROLLED PRODUCTS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, OF A WIDTH OF 600 MM OR MORE, IN COILS, NOT FURTHER WORKED THAN HOT-ROLLED, WITH PATTERNS IN RELIEF.
720825 | FLAT-ROLLED PRODUCTS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, OF A WIDTH OF 600 MM OR MORE, COILS, HOT-ROLLED WORKED ONLY, PICKLED, THICKNESS 4.75 MM OR MORE, NESOI.
720826 | FLAT-ROLLED PRODUCTS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, OF A WIDTH OF 600 MM OR MORE, COILS, HOT-ROLLED WORKED ONLY, PICKLED, 3 MM BUT <4.75 MM THICK, N.E.S.O.I.
720827 | FLAT-ROLLED PRODUCTS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, WIDTH OF 600 MM OR MORE, IN COILS, HOT-ROLLED WORKED ONLY, PICKLED, LESS THAN 3 MM THICK, N.E.S.O.I.
720836 | FLAT-ROLLED PRODUCTS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, WIDTH OF 600 MM OR MORE IN COILS, HOT-ROLLED WORKED ONLY, OF A THICKNESS EXCEEDING 10 MM, N.E.S.O.I.
720837 | FLAT-ROLLED PRODUCTS OF IRN OR NONALLOY STEEL, WIDTH OF 600 MM OR MORE, IN COILS, HOT-ROLLED WORKED ONLY, OF A THICKNESS 4.75 MM BUT NOT OVER 10 MM NESOI.
720838 | FLAT-ROLLED PRODUCTS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, WIDTH 600 MM OR MORE, IN COILS,HOT-ROLLED WORKED ONLY, OF A THICKNESS 3 MM OR MORE BUT UNDER 4.75 MM, NESOI.
720839 | FLAT-ROLLED PRODUCTS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, WIDTH 600 MM OR MORE, IN COILS,HOT-ROLLED WORKED ONLY, OF A THICKNESS OF LESS THAN 3 MM, N.E.S.O.I.
720840 | FLAT-ROLLED IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, HOT-ROLLED, NOT CLAD, PLATED OR COILS, PATTERNS IN RELIEF.
720851 | FLAT-ROLLED PRODUCTS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, WIDTH 600 MM OR MORE, NOT IN COILS, HOT-ROLLED WORKED ONLY, OF A THICKNESS EXCEEDING 10 MM, N.E.S.O.I.
720852 | FLAT-ROLLED IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, HOT-ROLLED, NOT CLAD, PLATED, COATED OR COILS, 4.75 MM TO 10 MM THICK.
720853 | FLAT-ROLLED IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, HOT-ROLLED, NOT CLAD, PLATED, COATED OR COILS, 3 MM TO UNDER 4.75 MM THICK.
720854 | FLAT-ROLLED IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, HOT-ROLLED, NOT CLAD, PLATED, COATED OR COILS, LESS THAN 3 MM THICK.
720890 | FLAT-ROLLED IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL PRODUCTS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, HOT-ROLLED, NOT CLAD, PLATED OR COATED, NESOI.
720915 | FLAT-ROLLED PRODUCTS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, WIDTH 600 MM OR MORE, IN COILS, COLD-ROLLED WORKED ONLY, OF A THICKNESS OF 3 MM OR MORE.
720916 | FLAT-ROLLED PRODUCTS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, WIDTH 600 MM OR MORE, IN COILS, COLD-ROLLED WORKED ONLY, OF A THICKNESS OVER ONE MM BUT LESS THAN 3 MM.
720917 | FLAT-ROLLED PRODUCTS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, WIDTH 600 MM OR MORE, IN COILS, COLD-ROLLED WORKED ONLY, OF A THICKNESS 0.5 MM OR MORE BUT NOT OVER 1 MM.
720918 | FLAT-ROLLED PRODUCTS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, WIDTH 600 MM OR MORE, IN COILS, COLD-ROLLED WORKED ONLY, OF A THICKNESS OF LESS THAN 0.5 MM.
720925 | FLAT-ROLLED PRODUCTS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, WIDTH 600 MM OR MORE, NOT IN COILS, COLD-ROLLED WORKED ONLY, OF A THICKNESS OF 3 MM OR MORE.
720926 | FLAT-ROLLED PRODUCTS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, WIDTH 600 MM OR MORE, NOT IN COILS, COLD-ROLLED WORKED ONLY, OF A THICKNESS OVER 1 MM BUT LESS THAN 3 MM.
720927 | FLAT-ROLLED PRODUCTS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, WIDTH 600 MM OR MORE, NOT IN COILS, COLD-ROLLED WORKED ONLY, OF A THICKNESS 0.5 MM OR MORE BUT N/O 1 MM.
720928 | FLAT-ROLLED PRODUCTS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, WIDTH 600 MM OR MORE, NOT IN COILS, COLD-ROLLED WORKED ONLY, OF A THICKNESS OF LESS THAN 0.5 MM.
720990 | FLAT-ROLLED IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL PRODUCTS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, COLD-ROLLED, NOT CLAD, PLATED OR COATED, NESOI.
721011 | FLAT-ROLLED IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL PRODUCTS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, PLATED OR COATED WITH TIN, 0.5 MM OR MORE THICK.
721012 | FLAT-ROLLED IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL PRODUCTS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, PLATED OR COATED WITH TIN, UNDER 0.5 MM THICK.
721020 | FLAT-ROLLED IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL PRODUCTS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, PLATED OR COATED WITH LEAD, INCLUDING TERNE-PLATE.
721030 | FLAT-ROLLED PRODUCTS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, WIDTH OF 600 MM OR MORE, ELECTROLYTICALLY PLATED OR COATED WITH ZINC.
721041 | FLAT-ROLLED IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL PRODUCTS, CORRUGATED, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, PLATED OR COATED WITH ZINC OTHER THAN ELECTROLYTICALLY.
721049 | FLAT-ROLLED IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL PRODUCTS, NOT CORRUGATED, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, PLATED OR COATED WITH ZINC OTHER THAN ELECTROLYTICALLY.
721050 | FLAT-ROLLED IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL PRODUCTS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, PLATED OR COATED WITH CHROMIUM OXIDES OR WITH CHROMIUM AND CHROMIUM OXIDES.
721061 | FLAT-ROLLED IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL 600 MM OR MORE, PLATED OR COATED WITH ALUMINUM-ZINC ALLOYS.
721069 | FLAT-ROLLED IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL 600 MM OR MORE, PLATED OR COATED WITH OTHER ALUMINUM.
721070 | FLAT-ROLLED IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL PRODUCTS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, PAINTED, VARNISHED OR COATED WITH PLASTICS.
721090 | FLAT-ROLLED IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL PRODUCTS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, CLAD, PLATED OR COATED, NESOI.
721113 | FLAT-ROLLED HIGH-STRNGTH IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL UNDER 600MM WIDE HOT-ROLLED, NOT CLAD, COATED OR PLATED, UNIVERSAL MILLPLATE.
721114 | FLAT-ROLLD HIGH-STRNGTH IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL UNDER 600MM WIDE HOT-ROLLD, NOT CLAD, COATED OR PLATED 4.75MM THICK OR MORE.
721119 | FLAT-ROLLED HIGH-STRENGTH NONALLLOY STEEL PRODUCTS NESOI, UNDER 600 MM WIDE, HOT-ROLLED, NOT CLAD, PLATED OR COATED, UNDER 4.75 MM THICK.
721123 | FLAT-ROLLED PRODUCTS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, WIDTH LESS THAN 600 MM, NOT FURTHER WORKED THAN COLD-ROLLED, NOT CLAD, PLATED OR COATED, <0.25% CARBON.
721129 | FLAT-ROLLED IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL PRODUCTS UNDER 600 MM WIDE, COLD-ROLLED, NOT CLAD, PLATED OR COATED, NESOI.
721190 | FLAT-ROLLED IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL PRODUCTS, UNDER 600 MM WIDE, NOT CLAD, PLATED OR COATED, NESOI.
721210 | FLAT-ROLLED IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL PRODUCTS, UNDER 600 MM WIDE, PLATED OR COATED WITH TIN.
721220 | FLAT-ROLLED PRODUCTS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, WIDTH OF LESS THAN 600 MM, ELECTROLYTICALLY PLATED OR COATED WITH ZINC.
721230 | FLAT-ROLLED IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL PRODUCTS, UNDER 600 MM WIDE, PLATED OR COATED WITH ZINC OTHER THAN ELECTROLYTICALLY.
721240 | FLAT-ROLLED IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL PRODUCTS, UNDER 600 MM WIDE, PAINTED, VARNISHED OR COATED WITH PLASTICS.
721250 | FLAT-ROLLED IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL PRODUCTS, UNDER 600 MM WIDE, PLATED OR COATED, NESOI.
721260 | FLAT-ROLLED IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL PRODUCTS, UNDER 600 MM WIDE, CLAD.
721310 | BARS AND RODS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, HOT-ROLLED, IN IRREGULLARLY WOUND COILS, CONCRETE REINFORCING.
721320 | BARS AND RODS OF FREE-CUTTING NONALLOY STEEL, HOT-ROLLED, IN IRREGULARLY WOUND COILS.
721391 | BARS AND RODS,HOT-ROLLED, IN IRREGULARLY WOUND COILS, OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, OF CIRCULAR CROSS-SECTION MEASURING LESS THAN 14MM IN DIAMETER, NESOI.
721399 | BARS AND RODS, HOT-ROLLED, IN IRREGULARLY WOUND COILS, OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, N.E.S.O.I.
721410 | BARS AND RODS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, FORGED.
721420 | BARS AND RODS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, HOT-WORKED NESOI, CONCRETE REINFORCING.
721430 | BARS AND RODS OF FREE-CUTTING NONALLOY STEEL, HOT-WORKED NESOI.
721491 | BARS AND RODS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, NOT FURTHER WORKED THAN HOT-ROLLED, HOT-DRAWN OR HOT-EXTRUDED BUT INCL TWISTED, RECTANGULAR CROSS SECTN, NESOI.
721499 | BARS AND RODS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, NOT FURTHER WORKED THAN HOT-ROLLED, HOT-DRAWN OR HOT-EXTRUDED, BUT INCLUDING TWISTED AFTER ROLLING, N.E.S.O.I.
721510 | BARS AND RODS OF FREE-CUTTING NONALLOY STEEL, COLD-FORMED OR COLD-FINISHED.
721550 | BARS AND RODS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, NOT FURTHER WORKED THAN COLD-FORMED OR COLD-FINISHED, N.E.S.O.I.
721590 | BARS AND RODS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, NESOI.
721610 | U, I OR H SECTIONS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, HOT-WORKED, LESS THAN 80 MM HIGH.
721621 | L SECTIONS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, HOT-WORKED, LESS THAN 80 MM HIGH.
721622 | T SECTIONS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, HOT-WORKED, LESS THAN 80 MM HIGH.
721631 | U SECTIONS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, HOT-WORKED, 80 MM OR MORE HIGH.
721632 | I SECTIONS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, HOT-WORKED, 80 MM OR MORE HIGH (STANDARD BEAMS).
721633 | H SECTIONS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, HOT-WORKED, 80 MM OR MORE HIGH.
721640 | L OR T SECTIONS OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, HOT-WORKED, 80 MM OR MORE HIGH.
721650 | ANGLES, SHAPES AND SECTIONS NESOI OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, HOT-WORKED.
721661 | ANGLES, SHAPES AND SECTIONS, IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, NOT FURTHER WORKED THAN COLD-FORMED OR COLD-FINISHED, OBTAINED FROM FLAT-ROLLED PRODUCTS.
721669 | ANGLES, SHAPES AND SECTIONS, IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, NOT FURTHER WORKED THAN COLD-FORMED OR COLD-FINISHED, NOT OBTAINED FROM FLAT-ROLLED PRODUCTS.
721691 | ANGLES, SHAPES AND SECTIONS, IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, OTHER COLD-FORMED OR COLD-FINISHED FROM FLAT-ROLLED PRODUCTS.
721699 | ANGLES, SHAPES AND SECTIONS IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL NESOI.
721710 | WIRE OF IRON OR NONALLLOY STEEL, NOT PLATED OR COATED, WHETHER OR NOT POLISHED.
721720 | WIRE OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, PLATED OR COATED WITH ZINC.
721730 | WIRE OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, PLATED OR COATED WITH BASE METAL OTHER THAN ZINC.
721790 | WIRE OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL LESS THAN 0.25 PERCENT CARBON, NESOI.
721810 | STAINLESS STEEL INGOTS AND OTHER PRIMARY FORMS.
721891 | SEMIFINISHED PRODUCTS OF STAINLESS STEEL, RECTANGULAR (OTHER THAN SQUARE) CROSS-SECTION.
721899 | OTHER SEMIFINISHED PRODUCTS OF STAINLESS STEEL.
721911 | FLAT-ROLLED STAINLESS STEEL IN COILS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, HOT-ROLLED, OVER 10 MM THICK.
721912 | FLAT-ROLLED STAINLESS STEEL IN COILS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, HOT-ROLLED, 4.75 MM BUT NOT OVER 10 MM THICK.
721913 | FLAT-ROLLED STAINLESS STEEL IN COILS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, HOT-ROLLED, 3 MM BUT UNDER 4.75 MM THICK.
721914 | FLAT-ROLLED STAINLESS STEEL IN COILS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, HOT-ROLLED, UNDER 3 MM THICK.
721921 | FLAT-ROLLED STAINLESS STEEL NOT IN COILS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, HOT-ROLLED, OVER 10 MM THICK.
721922 | FLAT-ROLLED STAINLESS STEEL NOT IN COILS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, HOT-ROLLED, 4.75 MM BUT NOT OVER 10 MM THICK.
721923 | FLAT-ROLLED STAINLESS STEEL NOT IN COILS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, HOT-ROLLED, 3 MM BUT UNDER 4.75 MM THICK.
721924 | FLAT-ROLLED STAINLESS STEEL NOT IN COILS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, HOT-ROLLED, UNDER 3 MM THICK.
721931 | FLAT-ROLLED STAINLESS STEEL PRODUCTS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, COLD-ROLLED, 4.75 MM OR MORE THICK.
721932 | FLAT-ROLLED STAINLESS STEEL PRODUCTS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, COLD-ROLLED, 3 MM BUT UNDER 4.75 MM THICK.
721933 | FLAT-ROLLED STAINLESS STEEL PRODUCTS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, COLD-ROLLED, OVER 1 MM BUT UNDER 3 MM THICK.
721934 | FLAT-ROLLED STAINLESS STEEL PRODUCTS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, COLD-ROLLED, 0.5 MM BUT NOT OVER 1 MM THICK.
721935 | FLAT-ROLLED STAINLESS STEEL PRODUCTS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, COLD-ROLLED, UNDER 0.5 MM THICK.
721990 | FLAT-ROLLED STAINLESS STEEL PRODUCTS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, NESOI.
722011 | FLAT-ROLLED STAINLESS STEEL PRODUCTS, UNDER 600 MM WIDE, HOT-ROLLED, 4.75 MM OR MORE THICK.
722012 | FLAT-ROLLED STAINLESS STEEL PRODUCTS, UNDER 600 MM WIDE, HOT-ROLLED, UNDER 4.75 MM THICK.
722020 | FLAT-ROLLED STAINLESS STEEL PRODUCTS, UNDER 600 MM WIDE, COLD-ROLLED.
722090 | FLAT-ROLLED STAINLESS STEEL PRODUCTS, UNDER 600 MM WIDE, NESOI.
722100 | BARS AND RODS OF STAINLESS STEEL, HOT-ROLLED, IN IRREGULARLY WOUND COILS.
722211 | OTHER BARS AND RODS OF STAINLESS STEEL, HOT-ROLLED, CIRCULAR CROSS-SECTION.
722219 | OTHER BARS AND RODS OF STAINLESS STEEL, HOT-ROLLED, OTHER THAN CIRCULAR CROSS-SECTION.
722220 | BARS AND RODS OF STAINLESS STEEL, COLD-FORMED OR COLD-FINISHED.
722230 | BARS AND RODS OF STAINLESS STEEL, NESOI.
722240 | ANGLES, SHAPES AND SECTIONS OF STAINLESS STEEL.
722300 | WIRE OF STAINLESS STEEL.
722410 | INGOTS AND OTHER PRIMARY FORMS OF ALLOY STEEL (OTHER THAN STAINLESS) NESOI.
722490 | SEMIFINISHED PRODUCTS OF ALLOY STEEL (OTHER THAN STAINLESS) NESOI.
722511 | FLAT-ROLLED SILICON ELECTRICAL STEEL 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, GRAIN-ORIENTED.
722519 | FLAT-ROLLED SILICON ELECTRICAL STEEL 600MM OR MORE WIDE, NOT GRAIN-ORIENTED.
722530 | FLAT-ROLLED ALLOY STEEL (OTHER THAN STAINLESS) IN COILS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, HOT-ROLLED, NESOI.
722540 | FLAT-ROLLED ALLOY STEEL (OTHER THAN STAINLESS) NOT IN COILS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, HOT-ROLLED, NESOI.
722550 | FLAT-ROLLED ALLOY STEEL (OTHER THAN STAINLESS) PRODUCTS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, COLD-ROLLED, NESOI.
722591 | FLAT-ROLLED ALLOY STEEL NESOI, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, ELECTROLYTICALLY PLATED OR COATED WITH ZINC.
722592 | FLAT-ROLLED ALLOY STEEL NESOI 600 MM OR MORE WIDE PLATED OR COATED WITH ZINC, NOT ELECTROLYTICALLY.
722599 | FLAT-ROLLED ALLOY STEEL NOT STAINLESS, 600 MM OR MORE WIDE, NESOI.
722611 | FLAT-ROLLED SILICON ELECTRICAL STEEL UNDER 600 MM WIDE, GRAIN-ORIENTED.
722619 | FLAT-ROLLED SILICON ELECTRICAL STEEL UNDER 600 MM WIDE, NOT GRAIN-ORIENTED.
722620 | FLAT-ROLLED HIGH-SPEED STEEL PRODUCTS, UNDER 600 MM WIDE.
722691 | FLAT-ROLLED ALLOY STEEL (OTHER THAN STAINLESS) PRODUCTS, UNDER 600 MM WIDE, HOT-ROLLED, NESOI.
722692 | FLAT-ROLLED ALLOY STEEL (OTHER THAN STAINLESS) PRODUCTS, UNDER 600 MM WIDE, COLD-ROLLED, NESOI.
722699 | FLAT-ROLLED ALLOY STEEL (OTHER THAN STAINLESS) PRODUCTS, UNDER 600 MM WIDE, NESOI.
722710 | BARS AND RODS OF HIGH-SPEED STEEL, HOT-ROLLED, IN IRREGULARLY WOUND COILS.
722720 | BARS AND RODS OF SILICO-MANGANESE STEEL, HOT-ROLLED, IN IRREGULARLY WOUND COILS.
722790 | BARS AND RODS OF ALLOY STEEL (OTHER THAN STAINLESS), HOT-ROLLED, IN IRREGULARLY WOUND COILS, NESOI.
722810 | BARS AND RODS OF HIGH-SPEED STEEL NESOI.
722820 | BARS AND RODS OF SILICO-MANGANESE STEEL NESOI.
722830 | BARS AND RODS OF ALLOY STEEL (OTHER THAN STAINLESS), HOT-WORKED, NESOI.
722840 | BARS AND RODS OF ALLOY STEEL (OTHER THAN STAINLESS), FORGED, NESOI.
722850 | BARS AND RODS OF ALLOY STEEL (OTHER THAN STAINLESS), COLD-FORMED OR COLD-FINISHED, NESOI.
722860 | BARS AND RODS OF ALLOY STEEL (OTHER THAN STAINLESS), NESOI.
722870 | ANGLES, SHAPES AND SECTIONS OF ALLOY STEEL (OTHER THAN STAINLESS), NESOI.
722880 | HOLLOW DRILL BARS AND RODS OF ALLOY OR NONALLOY STEEL.
722920 | WIRE OF SILICO-MANGANESE STEEL.
722990 | WIRE OF ALLOY STEEL NESOI.
730110 | SHEET PILING OF IRON OR STEEL, WHETHER OR NOT DRILLED, PUNCHED OR MADE FROM ASSEMBLED ELEMENTS.
730120 | WELDED ANGLES, SHAPES AND SECTIONS OF IRON OR STEEL.
730210 | RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY RAILS OF IRON OR STEEL.
730230 | RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY TRACK SWITCH BLADES, CROSSING FROGS, POINT RODS AND OTHER CROSSING PIECES OF IRON OR STEEL.
730240 | RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY TRACK FISH-PLATES AND SOLE PLATES OF IRON OR STEEL.
730290 | RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY TRACK CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL OF IRON OR STEEL NESOI.
730300 | TUBES, PIPES AND HOLLOW PROFILES OF CAST IRON.
730424 | CASING & TUBING USED IN DRILLING FOR OIL OR GAS, OTHER OF STAINLESS STEEL.
730431 | TUBES, PIPES AND HOLLOW PROFILES, SEAMLESS NESOI, OF CIRCULAR CROSS SECTION OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, COLD-DRAWN OR COLD-ROLLED.
730439 | TUBES, PIPES AND HOLLOW PROFILES, SEAMLESS NESOI, OF CIRCULAR CROSS SECTION OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL, NOT COLD-DRAWN OR COLD-ROLLED.
730441 | TUBES, PIPES AND HOLLOW PROFILES, SEAMLESS NESOI, OF CIRCULAR CROSS SECTION OF STAINLESS STEEL, COLD-DRAWN OR COLD-ROLLED.
730449 | TUBES, PIPES AND HOLLOW PROFILES, SEAMLESS NESOI, OF CIRCULAR CROSS SECTION OF STAINLESS STEEL, NOT COLD-DRAWN OR COLD-ROLLED.
730451 | TUBES, PIPES AND HOLLOW PROFILES, SEAMLESS NESOI, OF CIRCULAR CROSS SECTION OF ALLOY STEEL (OTHER THAN STAINLESS), COLD-DRAWN OR COLD-ROLLED.
730459 | TUBES, PIPES AND HOLLOW PROFILES, SEAMLESS NESOI, OF CIRCULAR CROSS SECTION OF ALLOY STEEL (OTHER THAN STAINLESS), NOT COLD-DRAWN OR COLD-ROLLED.
730490 | TUBES, PIPES AND HOLLOW PROFILES, SEAMLESS NESOI, OF IRON (OTHER THAN CAST IRON) OR STEEL.
730531 | PIPES AND TUBES NESOI, EXTERNAL DIAMETER OVER 406.4 MM (16 IN.), OF IRON OR STEEL, LONGITUDINALLY WELDED.
730539 | PIPES AND TUBES NESOI, EXTERNAL DIAMETER OVER 406.4 MM (16 IN.), OF IRON OR STEEL, WELDED NESOI.
730590 | PIPES AND TUBES NESOI, EXTERNAL DIAMETER OVER 406.4 MM (16 IN.), OF IRON OR STEEL, RIVETED OR SIMILARLY CLOSED NESOI.
730621 | CASING OR TUBING FOR OIL OR GAS DRILLING, WELDED OF STAINLESS STEEL, NESOI.
730629 | CASING OR TUBING FOR OIL OR GAS DRILLING, OF IRON OR STEEL, NESOI.
730630 | PIPES, TUBES AND HOLLOW PROFILES NESOI, WELDED, OF CIRCULAR CROSS SECTION, OF IRON OR NONALLOY STEEL.
730640 | PIPES, TUBES AND HOLLOW PROFILES NESOI, WELDED, OF CIRCULAR CROSS SECTION, OF STAINLESS STEEL.
730650 | PIPES, TUBES AND HOLLOW PROFILES NESOI, WELDED, OF CIRCULAR CROSS SECTION, OF ALLOY STEEL (OTHER THAN STAINLESS) NESOI.
730661 | TUBES, PIPES AND HOLLOW PROFILES, OF IRON OR STEEL, WELDED, OF A SQUARE OR RECTANGULAR CROSS-SECTION, NESOI.
730669 | TUBES, PIPES AND HOLLOW PROFILES, OF IRON OR STEEL, WELDED, OF NON-CIRCULAR CROSS-SECTION, NESOI.
730690 | PIPES, TUBES AND HOLLOW PROFILES NESOI, OF IRON OR STEEL, RIVETED OR SIMILARLY CLOSED.
730711 | PIPE OR TUBE FITTINGS, CAST, OF NONMALLEABLE IRON.
730719 | PIPE OR TUBE FITTINGS, CAST, OF IRON NESOI OR STEEL.
730721 | PIPE OR TUBE FITTINGS, NESOI, STAINLESS STEEL FLANGES.
730722 | PIPE OR TUBE FITTINGS, NESOI, STAINLESS STEEL THREADED ELBOWS, BENDS AND SLEEVES.
730723 | PIPE OR TUBE FITTINGS, NESOI, STAINLESS STEEL BUTT WELDING FITTINGS.
730729 | PIPE OR TUBE FITTINGS, NESOI, STAINLESS STEEL FITTINGS NESOI.
730791 | PIPE OR TUBE FITTINGS, NESOI, IRON OR NONSTAINLESS STEEL FLANGES.
730792 | PIPE OR TUBE FITTINGS, NESOI, IRON OR NONSTAINLESS STEEL THREADED ELBOWS, BENDS AND SLEEVES.
730793 | PIPE OR TUBE FITTINGS, NESOI, IRON OR NONSTAINLESS STEEL BUTT WELDING FITTINGS.
730799 | PIPE OR TUBE FITTINGS, NESOI, IRON OR NONSTAINLESS STEEL FITTINGS NESOI.
730810 | BRIDGES AND BRIDGE SECTIONS OF IRON OR STEEL.
730820 | TOWERS AND LATTICE MASTS OF IRON OR STEEL.
730830 | DOORS, WINDOWS AND FRAMES AND THRESHOLDS FOR DOORS, OF IRON OR STEEL.
730840 | EQUIPMENT FOR SCAFFOLDING, SHUTTERING PROPPING OR PIT-PROPPING, OF IRON OR STEEL.
730890 | STRUCTURES AND PARTS OF STRUCTURES NESOI, OF IRON OR STEEL.
730900 | RESERVOIRS, TANKS, CASKS, VATS AND SIMILAR CONTAINERS NESOI, OF A CAPACITY OF MORE THAN 300 LITERS (79.25 GAL.), OF IRON OR STEEL.
731010 | TANKS, DRUMS, CANS, AND SIMILAR PLAIN CONTAINERS, A CAPACITY OF 50 LITERS (13.21 GAL.) OR MORE, BUT NOT OVER 300 LITERS (79.25 GAL.), OF IRON OR STEEL.
731021 | CANS, PLAIN, UNFITTED, OF A CAPACITY OF LESS THAN 50 LITERS (13.21 GAL.), WHICH WILL BE CLOSED BY SOLDERING OR CRIMPING, OF IRON OR STEEL.
731029 | TANKS, CASKS, DRUMS, CANS, BOXES AND SIMILAR PLAIN, UNFITTED CONTAINERS NESOI, OF A CAPACITY OF LESS THAN 50 LITERS (13.21 GAL.), OF IRON OR STEEL.
731100 | CONTAINERS FOR COMPRESSED OR LIQUEFIED GAS, OF IRON OR STEEL.
731210 | STRANDED WIRE, ROPES AND CABLES, NOT ELECTRICALLY INSULATED, OF IRON OR STEEL.
731290 | PLAITED BANDS, SLINGS AND THE LIKE (OTHER THAN STRANDED WIRE, ROPES OR CABLES), NOT ELECTRICALLY INSULATED, OF IRON OR STEEL.
731300 | BARBED WIRE, TWISTED HOOP OR SINGLE FLAT WIRE, BARBED OR NOT, AND LOOSELY TWISTED DOUBLE WIRE, OF A KIND USED FOR FENCING, OF IRON OR STEEL.
731412 | ENDLESS BANDS OF STAINLESS STEEL.
731414 | OTHER PRODUCTS OF WOVEN STAINLESS STEEL CLOTH.
731419 | WOVEN PRODUCTS OF IRON OR STEEL, NESOI.
731420 | GRILL, NETTING AND FENCING OF IRON OR STEEL WIRE, WELDED AT THE INTERSECTION, MAXIMUM CROSS-SECTION OF 3 MM OR MORE AND MESH SIZE OF 100 CM2 OR MORE.
731431 | OTHER GRILL, NETTING AND FENCING WELDED AT THE INTERSECTION OF GALVANIZED STEEL.
731439 | OTHER GRILL, NETTING AND FENCING WELDED AT THE INTERSECTION OF IRON OR STEEL OTHER THAN GALVANIZED STEEL.
731441 | GRILL, NETTING AND FENCING OF IRON OR STEEL WIRE NESOI, PLATED OR COATED WITH ZINC.
731442 | GRILL, NETTING AND FENCING OF IRON OR STEEL WIRE NESOI, COATED WITH PLASTICS.
731449 | GRILL, NETTING AND FENCING OF IRON OR STEEL WIRE NESOI.
731450 | EXPANDED METAL OF IRON OR STEEL.
731511 | ROLLER CHAIN OF IRON OR STEEL.
731512 | ARTICULATED LINK CHAIN OTHER THAN ROLLER CHAIN, OF IRON OR STEEL.
731519 | PARTS OF ARTICULATED LINK CHAIN OF IRON OR STEEL.
731520 | SKID CHAIN OF IRON OR STEEL.
731581 | STUD LINK CHAIN OF IRON OR STEEL.
731582 | CHAIN NESOI, WELDED LINK OF IRON OR STEEL.
731589 | CHAIN OF IRON OR STEEL, NESOI.
731590 | PARTS OF CHAIN NESOI, OF IRON OR STEEL.
731600 | ANCHORS, GRAPNELS AND PARTS THEREOF, OF IRON OR STEEL.
731700 | NAILS, TACKS, DRAWING PINS, STAPLES (OTHER THAN IN STRIPS), AND SIMILAR ARTICLES, OF IRON OR STEEL, EXCLUDING SUCH ARTICLES WITH HEADS OF COPPER.
731811 | COACH SCREWS, THREADED, OF IRON OR STEEL.
731812 | WOOD SCREWS OTHER THAN COACH SCREWS, THREADED, OF IRON OR STEEL.
731813 | SCREW HOOKS AND SCREW RINGS, THREADED, OF IRON OR STEEL.
731814 | SELF-TAPPING SCREWS, THREADED, OF IRON OR STEEL.
731815 | THREADED SCREWS AND BOLTS NESOI, WITH OR WITHOUT THEIR NUTS OR WASHERS, OF IRON OR STEEL.
731816 | NUTS, THREADED, OF IRON OR STEEL.
731819 | THREADED ARTICLES OF IRON OR STEEL NESOI.
731821 | SPRING WASHERS AND OTHER LOCK WASHERS, OF IRON OR STEEL.
731822 | WASHERS, OTHER THAN LOCK WASHERS, OF IRON OR STEEL.
731823 | RIVETS OF IRON OR STEEL.
731824 | COTTERS AND COTTER PINS, OF IRON OR STEEL.
731829 | NONTHREADED ARTICLES (FASTENERS) NESOI, OF IRON OR STEEL.
731940 | SAFETY PINS AND OTHER PINS OF IRON OR STEEL.
731990 | KNITTING NEEDLES, BODKINS, CROCHET HOOKS, EMBROIDERY STILETTOS AND SIMILAR ARTICLES FOR USE IN THE HAND, OF IRON OR STEEL, NESOI.
732010 | LEAF SPRINGS AND LEAVES THEREFOR, OF IRON OR STEEL.
732020 | HELICAL SPRINGS OF IRON OR STEEL.
732090 | SPRINGS NESOI, OF IRON OR STEEL.
732111 | COOKING APPLIANCES AND PLATE WARMERS, FOR GAS FUEL OR FOR BOTH GAS AND OTHER FUELS, OF IRON OR STEEL.
732112 | COOKING APPLIANCES AND PLATE WARMERS FOR LIQUID FUEL, OF IRON OR STEEL.
732119 | COOKING APPLIANCES AND PLATE WARMERS, NONELECTRIC, OF IRON OR STEEL, NESOI.
732181 | NONELECTRIC DOMESTIC APPLIANCES NESOI, FOR GAS FUEL OR BOTH GAS AND OTHER FUELS, OF IRON OR STEEL.
732182 | NONELECTRIC DOMESTIC APPLIANCES NESOI, FOR LIQUID FUEL, OF IRON OR STEEL.
732189 | NONELECTRIC DOMESTIC APPLIANCES, OF IRON OR STEEL, NESOI.
732190 | PARTS OF NONELECTRIC DOMESTIC COOKING APPLIANCES AND PLATE WARMERS AND SIMILAR NONELECTRIC DOMESTIC APPLIANCES, OF IRON OR STEEL.
732211 | RADIATORS FOR CENTRAL HEATING AND PARTS THEREOF, OF CAST IRON.
732219 | RADIATORS FOR CENTRAL HEATING AND PARTS THEREOF, OF IRON OR STEEL, EXCEPT CAST IRON.
732290 | AIR HEATERS AND HOT AIR DISTRIBUTORS, NOT ELECTRICALLY HEATED, INCORPORATING A MOTOR-DRIVEN FAN OR BLOWER, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF IRON OR STEEL.
732310 | IRON OR STEEL WOOL; POT SCOURERS AND SCOURING OR POLISHING PADS, GLOVES AND THE LIKE, OF IRON OR STEEL.
732391 | TABLE, KITCHEN OR OTHER HOUSEHOLD ARTICLES AND PARTS THEREOF, OF CAST IRON, NOT ENAMELED.
732392 | TABLE, KITCHEN OR OTHER HOUSEHOLD ARTICLES AND PARTS THEREOF, OF CAST IRON, ENAMELED.
732393 | TABLE, KITCHEN OR OTHER HOUSEHOLD ARTICLES AND PARTS THEREOF, OF STAINLESS STEEL.
732394 | TABLE, KITCHEN OR OTHER HOUSEHOLD ARTICLES AND PARTS THEREOF, OF IRON (NOT CAST) AND STEEL (NOT STAINLESS), ENAMELED.
732399 | TABLE, KITCHEN OR OTHER HOUSEHOLD ARTICLES AND PARTS THEREOF, OF IRON (NOT CAST) AND STEEL (NOT STAINLESS), NOT ENAMELED.
732410 | SINKS AND WASH BASINS OF STAINLESS STEEL.
732421 | BATHS OF CAST IRON, WHETHER OR NOT ENAMELED.
732429 | BATHS OF IRON OR STEEL, OTHER THAN CAST IRON.
732490 | SANITARY WARE AND PARTS THEREOF NESOI, OF IRON OR STEEL (OTHER THAN STAINLESS STEEL SINKS OR WASH BASINS AND BATHS OF IRON OR STEEL).
732510 | ARTICLES NESOI, OF NONMALLEABLE CAST IRON.
732591 | GRINDING BALLS AND SIMILAR ARTICLES FOR MILLS, CAST, OF IRON OR STEEL, OTHER THAN NONMALLEABLE CAST IRON.
732599 | CAST ARTICLES NESOI, OF IRON OR STEEL.
732611 | GRINDING BALLS AND SIMILAR ARTICLES FOR MILLS, FORGED OR STAMPED, BUT NOT FURTHER WORKED, OF IRON OR STEEL.
732619 | ARTICLES NESOI, FORGED OR STAMPED, BUT NOT FURTHER WORKED, OF IRON OR STEEL.
732620 | ARTICLES OF IRON OR STEEL WIRE, NESOI.
740100 | COPPER MATTES; CEMENT COPPER (PRECIPITATED COPPER).
740200 | UNREFINED COPPER; COPPER ANODES FOR ELECTROLYTIC REFINING.
740311 | REFINED COPPER CATHODES AND SECTIONS OF CATHODES.
740312 | REFINED COPPER WIRE BARS, UNWROUGHT.
740313 | REFINED COPPER BILLETS, UNWROUGHT.
740319 | REFINED COPPER, UNWROUGHT, NESOI.
740321 | COPPER-ZINC BASE ALLOYS (BRASS), UNWROUGHT.
740322 | COPPER-TIN BASE ALLOYS (BRONZE), UNWROUGHT.
740329 | COPPER ALLOYS, UNWROUGHT, NESOI.
740400 | COPPER WASTE AND SCRAP.
740500 | MASTER ALLOYS OF COPPER.
740610 | COPPER POWDERS OF NON-LAMELLAR STRUCTURE.
740620 | COPPER POWDERS OF LAMELLAR STRUCTURE; FLAKES.
740710 | BARS, RODS AND PROFILES OF REFINED COPPER.
740721 | BARS, RODS AND PROFILES OF COPPER-ZINC BASE ALLOYS (BRASS).
740729 | BARS, RODS AND PROFILES OF COPPER ALLOYS, NESOI.
740811 | WIRE OF REFINED COPPER, WITH A MAXIMUM CROSS SECTIONAL DIMENSION OVER 6 MM (.23 IN.).
740819 | WIRE OF REFINED COPPER, WITH A MAXIMUM CROSS SECTIONAL DIMENSION NOT OVER 6 MM (.23 IN.).
740821 | WIRE OF COPPER-ZINC BASE ALLOYS (BRASS).
740822 | WIRE OF COPPER-NICKEL BASE ALLOYS (CUPRO-NICKEL) OR COPPER-NICKEL-ZINC BASE ALLOYS (NICKEL-SILVER).
740829 | WIRE OF COPPER ALLOYS, NESOI.
740911 | PLATES, SHEETS AND STRIP OF REFINED COPPER, OVER 0.15 MM THICK, IN COILS.
740919 | PLATES, SHEETS AND STRIP OF REFINED COPPER, OVER 0.15 MM THICK, NOT IN COILS.
740921 | PLATES, SHEETS AND STRIP OF COPPER-ZINC BASE ALLOYS (BRASS), OVER 0.15 MM THICK, IN COILS.
740929 | PLATES, SHEETS AND STRIP OF COPPER-ZINC BASE ALLOYS (BRASS), OVER 0.15 MM THICK, NOT IN COILS.
740931 | PLATES, SHEETS AND STRIP OF COPPER-TIN BASE ALLOYS (BRONZE), OVER 0.15 MM THICK, IN COILS.
740939 | PLATES, SHEETS AND STRIP OF COPPER-TIN BASE ALLOYS (BRONZE), OVER 0.15 MM THICK, NOT IN COILS.
740940 | PLATES, SHEETS AND STRIP OF COPPER-NICKEL BASE ALLOYS (CUPRO-NICKEL) OR COPPER-NICKEL-ZINC BASE ALLOYS (NICKEL SILVER), OVER 0.15 MM THICK.
740990 | PLATES, SHEETS AND STRIP OF COPPER ALLOYS NESOI, OVER 0.15 MM THICK.
741011 | COPPER FOIL, NOT BACKED, OF REFINED COPPER, NOT OVER 0.15 MM THICK.
741012 | COPPER ALLOY FOIL, NOT BACKED, NOT OVER 0.15 MM THICK.
741021 | COPPER FOIL, BACKED, OF REFINED COPPER, NOT OVER 0.15 MM THICK.
741022 | COPPER FOIL, BACKED, OF COPPER ALLOYS, NOT OVER 0.15 MM THICK.
741110 | TUBES AND PIPES OF REFINED COPPER.
741121 | TUBES AND PIPES OF COPPER-ZINC BASE ALLOYS (BRASS).
741122 | TUBES AND PIPES OF COPPER-NICKEL BASE ALLOYS (CUPRO-NICKEL) OR COPPER-NICKEL-ZINC BASE ALLOYS (NICKEL-SILVER).
741129 | TUBES AND PIPES OF COPPER ALLOYS NESOI.
741210 | TUBE OR PIPE FITTINGS OF REFINED COPPER.
741220 | TUBE OR PIPE FITTINGS OF COPPER ALLOYS.
741300 | STRANDED WIRE, CABLES, PLAITED BANDS AND SIMILAR ARTICLES, OF COPPER, NOT ELECTRICALLY INSULATED.
741510 | NAILS, TACKS, DRAWING PINS, STAPLES (OTHER THAN IN STRIPS) AND SIMILAR ARTICLES OF COPPER OR OF IRON OR STEEL WITH HEADS OF COPPER.
741521 | WASHERS, INCLUDING SPRING WASHERS, OF COPPER.
741529 | RIVETS, COTTERS, COTTER PINS AND SIMILAR ARTICLES OF COPPER (NOT THREADED), NESOI.
741533 | THREADED SCREWS, BOLTS, AND NUTS OF COPPER OR IRON OR STEEL WITH HEADS OF COPPER.
741539 | THREADED FASTENERS NESOI, OF COPPER.
741810 | COPPER TABLE, KITCHEN OR OTHER HOUSEHOLD ARTICLES AND PARTS THEREOF; POT SCOURERS OR POLISHING PADS, GLOVES AND THE LIKE, OF COPPER.
741820 | SANITARY WARE AND PARTS THEREOF, OF COPPER.
741920 | ARTICLES OF COPPER, NESOI, CAST, MOLDED, STAMPED OR FORGED, BUT NOT FURTHER WORKED.
741980 | ARTICLES OF COPPER, NESOI.
750110 | NICKEL MATTES.
750120 | NICKEL OXIDE SINTERS AND OTHER INTERMEDIATE PRODUCTS OF NICKEL METALLURGY.
750210 | NICKEL, NOT ALLOYED, UNWROUGHT.
750220 | NICKLE ALLOYS, UNWROUGHT.
750300 | NICKEL WASTE AND SCRAP.
750400 | NICKLE POWDERS AND FLAKES.
750511 | NICKEL BARS, RODS AND PROFILES, NOT ALLOYED.
750512 | NICKLE BARS, RODS AND PROFILES, OF NICKLE ALLOYS.
750521 | NICKLE WIRE, NOT ALLOYED.
750522 | NICKLE WIRE, OF NICKLE ALLOYS.
750610 | NICKEL PLATES, SHEETS, STRIP AND FOIL, NOT ALLOYED.
750620 | NICKEL PLATES, SHEETS, STRIP AND FOIL, OF NICKLE ALLOYS.
750711 | NICKLE TUBES AND PIPES, NOT ALLOYED.
750712 | NICKLE TUBES AND PIPES, OF NICKLE ALLOYS.
750720 | NICKLE TUBE OR PIPE FITTINGS.
750810 | CLOTH, GRILL AND NETTING OF NICKEL WIRE.
750890 | OTHER ARTICLES OF NICKEL, NESOI.
760110 | ALUMINUM, NOT ALLOYED, UNWROUGHT.
760120 | ALUMINUM ALLOYS, UNWROUGHT.
760200 | ALUMINUM WASTE AND SCRAP.
760310 | ALUMINUM POWDERS OF NONLAMELLAR STRUCTURE.
760320 | ALUMINUM POWDERS OF LAMELLAR STRUCTURE; FLAKES.
760410 | ALUMINUM BARS, RODS AND PROFILES, NOT ALLOYED.
760421 | ALUMINUM ALLOY HOLLOW PROFILES.
760429 | ALUMINUM ALLOY BARS, RODS AND PROFILES, OTHER THAN HOLLOW PROFILES.
760511 | ALUMINUM WIRE OF NONALLOYED ALUMINUM, WITH A MAXIMUM CROSS SECTIONAL DIMENSION OF OVER 7 MM.
760519 | ALUMINUM WIRE OF NONALLOYED ALUMINUM, WITH A MAXIMUM CROSS SECTIONAL DIMENSION OF 7 MM OR LESS.
760521 | ALUMINUM ALLOY WIRE, WITH A MAXIMUM CROSS SECTIONAL DIMENSION OF OVER 7 MM.
760529 | ALUMINUM ALLOY WIRE, WITH A MAXIMUM CROSS SECTIONAL DIMENSION OF 7 MM OR LESS.
760611 | ALUMINUM NONALLOYED RECTANGULAR (INCLUDING SQUARE) PLATES, SHEETS AND STRIP, OVER 0.2 MM THICK.
760612 | ALUMINUM ALLOY RECTANGULAR (INCLUDING SQUARE) PLATES, SHEETS AND STRIP, OVER 0.2 MM THICK.
760691 | ALUMINUM NONALLOYED PLATES, SHEETS OR STRIP, OVER 0.2 MM THICK, NESOI (OTHER THAN RECTANGULAR OR SQUARE SHAPES).
760692 | ALUMINUM ALLOY PLATES, SHEETS OR STRIP, OVER 0.2 MM THICK, NESOI (OTHER THAN RECTANGULAR SQUARE SHAPES).
760711 | ALUMINUM FOIL, NOT OVER 0.2 MM THICK, NOT BACKED, ROLLED BUT NOT FURTHER WORKED.
760719 | ALUMINUM FOIL, NOT OVER 0.2 MM THICK, NOT BACKED, NESOI.
760720 | ALUMINUM FOIL, NOT OVER 0.2 MM THICK, BACKED.
760810 | ALUMINUM TUBES AND PIPES, NOT ALLOYED.
760820 | ALUMINUM ALLOY TUBES AND PIPES.
760900 | ALUMINUM TUBE OR PIPE FITTINGS (INCLUDING COUPLINGS, ELBOWS, AND SLEEVES).
761010 | ALUMINUM DOORS, WINDOWS AND THEIR FRAMES AND THRESHOLDS FOR DOORS.
761090 | ALUMINUM STRUCTURES AND PARTS OF STRUCTURES, NESOI.
761100 | ALUMINUM TANKS, VATS AND SIMILAR PLAIN, UNFITTED CONTAINERS, OF A CAPACITY OVER 300 LITERS (79.30 GAL.).
761210 | ALUMINUM COLLAPSIBLE TUBULAR CONTAINERS, OF A CAPACITY NOT OVER 300 LITERS (79.30 GAL.).
761290 | ALUMINUM CASKS, DRUMS, CANS, BOXES AND SIMILAR PLAIN, UNFITTED CONTAINERS, OF A CAPACITY NOT OVER 300 LITERS (79.30 GAL.).
761300 | ALUMINUM CONTAINERS FOR COMPRESSED OR LIQUEFID GAS.
761410 | STRANDED WIRE, CABLES, PLAITED BANDS AND SIMILAR ARTICLES OF ALUMINUM, NOT ELECTRICALLY INSULATED, WITH A STEEL CORE.
761490 | STRANDED WIRE, CABLES, PLAITED BANDS AND SIMILAR ARTICLES OF ALUMINUM, NOT ELECTRICALLY INSULATED, NESOI.
761510 | ALUMINUM TABLE, KITCHEN OR OTHER HOUSEHOLD ARTICLES AND PARTS THEREOF; POT SCOURERS, SCOURING OR POLISHING PADS, GLOVES AND THE LIKE, OF ALUMINUM ETC.
761520 | ALUMINUM SANITARY WARE AND PARTS THEREOF.
761610 | NAILS, TACKS, STAPLES (OTHER THAN IN STRIPS), SCREWS, BOLTS, NUTS, SCREW HOOKS, RIVETS AND SIMILAR ARTICLES, OF ALUMINUM.
761691 | CLOTH, GRILL, NETTING AND FENCING OF ALUMINUM WIRE.
761699 | ARTICLES OF ALUMINUM, N.E.S.O.I.
780110 | REFINED LEAD, UNWROUGHT.
780191 | LEAD, OTHER THAN REFINED, CONTAINING ANTIMONY BY WEIGHT AS THE PRINCIPAL OTHER ELEMENT, UNWROUGHT.
780199 | LEAD, OTHER THAN REFINED, NESOI, UNWROUGHT.
780200 | LEAD WASTE AND SCRAP.
780411 | LEAD SHEETS, STRIP AND FOIL NOT OVER 0.2 MM THICK.
780419 | LEAD PLATES, SHEETS, STRIP AND FOIL OVER 0.2 MM THICK.
780420 | LEAD POWDERS AND FLAKES.
780600 | ARTICLES OF LEAD, NESOI.
790111 | ZINC, NOT ALLOYED, CONTAINING 99.9% OR MORE BY WEIGHT OF ZINC, UNWROUGHT.
790112 | ZINC, NOT ALLOYED, CONTAINING UNDER 99.99% ZINC BY WEIGHT. UNWROUGHT.
790120 | ZINC ALLOYS, UNWROUGHT.
790200 | ZINC WASTE AND SCRAP.
790310 | ZINC DUST.
790390 | ZINC POWDERS AND FLAKES.
790400 | ZINC BARS, RODS, PROFILES AND WIRE.
790500 | ZINC PLATES, SHEETS, STRIP AND FOIL.
790700 | ARTICLES OF ZINC, N.E.S.O.I.
800110 | TIN, NOT ALLOYED, UNWROUGHT.
800120 | TIN ALLOYS, UNWROUGHT.
800200 | TIN WASTE AND SCRAP.
800300 | TIN BARS, RODS, PROFILES AND WIRE.
800700 | ARTICLES OF TIN, NESOI.
810110 | TUNGSTEN (WOLFRAM) POWDERS.
810194 | TUNGSTEN, UNWROUGHT, INCLUDING BARS AND RODS OBTAINED SIMPLY BY SINTERING.
810196 | TUNGSTEN WIRE.
810197 | TUNGSTEN WASTE AND SCRAP.
810199 | TUNGSTEN, WROUGHT, NESOI.
810210 | MOLYBDENUM POWDERS.
810294 | MOLYBDENUM, UNWROUGHT, INCLUDING BARS AND RODS OBTAINED SIMPLY BY SINTERING.
810295 | MOLYBDENUM BARS AND RODS, OTHER THAN THOSE OBTAINED SIMPLY BY SINTERING; MOLYBDENUM PROFILES, PLATES, SHEETS, STRIP AND FOIL.
810296 | MOLYBDENUM WIRE.
810297 | MOLYBDENUM WASTE AND SCRAP.
810299 | MOLYBDENUM AND ARTICLES THEREOF, NESOI.
810320 | UNWROUGHT TANTALUM, INCLUDING BARS AND RODS OBTAINED SIMPLY BY SINTERING; POWDERS.
810330 | TANTALUM WASTE AND SCRAP.
810391 | TANTALUM AND ARTICLES THEREOF, NESOI.
810399 | TANTALUM AND ARTICLES THEREOF, NESOI.
810411 | MAGNESIUM, CONTAINING 99.8% OR MORE MAGNESIUM BY WEIGHT, UNWROUGHT.
810419 | MAGNESIUM, CONTAINING UNDER 99.8% MAGNESIUM BY WEIGHT, UNWROUGHT.
810420 | MAGNESIUM WASTE AND SCRAP.
810430 | MAGNESIUM RASPINGS, TURNINGS AND GRANULES, GRADED ACCORDING TO SIZE; MAGNESIUM POWDERS.
810490 | MAGNESIUM AND ARTICLES THEREOF, NESOI.
810520 | COBALT MATTES AND OTHER INTERMEDIATE PRODUCTS OF COBALT METALLURGY; COBALT, UNWROUGHT; COBALT POWDERS.
810530 | COBALT WASTE AND SCRAP.
810590 | COBALT AND ARTICLES THEREOF, NESOI.
810610 | BISMUTH AND ARTICLES THEREOF, INCLUDING WASTE AND SCRAP.
810690 | BISMUTH AND ARTICLES THEREOF, INCLUDING WASTE AND SCRAP.
810820 | UNWROUGHT TITANIUM; POWDERS.
810830 | TITANIUM WASTE AND SCRAP.
810890 | TITANIUM AND ARTICLES THEREOF, NESOI.
810921 | UNWROUGHT ZIRCONIUM; POWDERS.
810929 | UNWROUGHT ZIRCONIUM; POWDERS.
810931 | ZIRCONIUM WASTE AND SCRAP.
810939 | ZIRCONIUM WASTE AND SCRAP.
810991 | ZIRCONIUM AND ARTICLES THEREOF, NESOI.
810999 | ZIRCONIUM AND ARTICLES THEREOF, NESOI.
811010 | UNWROUGHT ANTIMONY; POWDERS.
811020 | ANTIMONY WASTE AND SCRAP.
811090 | ANTIMONY AND ARTICLES THEREOF, NESOI.
811100 | MANGANESE AND ARTICLES THEREOF, INCLUDING WASTE AND SCRAP.
811212 | UNWROUGHT BERYLLIUM; BERYLLIUM POWDERS, NESOI.
811213 | BERYLLIUM WASTE AND SCRAP.
811219 | BERYLLIUM AND ARTICLES THEREOF, NESOI.
811221 | UNWROUGHT CHROMIUM; POWDERS.
811222 | CHROMIUM WASTE AND SCRAP.
811229 | CHROMIUM AND ARTICLES THEREOF, NESOI.
811231 | GALLIUM, HAFNIUM, INDIUM, NIOBIUM (COLUMBIUM), RHENIUM & ARTICLES OF THESE METALS, INCLUDING WASTE & SCRAP.
811239 | GALLIUM, HAFNIUM, INDIUM, NIOBIUM (COLUMBIUM), RHENIUM AND THALLIUM AND ARTICLES THEREOF, NESOI.
811241 | GALLIUM, HAFNIUM, INDIUM, NIOBIUM (COLUMBIUM), RHENIUM & ARTICLES OF THESE METALS, INCLUDING WASTE & SCRAP.
811249 | GALLIUM, HAFNIUM, INDIUM, NIOBIUM (COLUMBIUM), RHENIUM AND THALLIUM AND ARTICLES THEREOF, NESOI.
811251 | UNWROUGHT THALLIUM; POWDERS.
811252 | THALLIUM WASTE AND SCRAP.
811259 | THALLIUM AND ARTICLES THEREOF, NESOI.
811261 | UNWROUGHT CADMIUM; WASTE AND SCRAP.
811269 | UNWROUGHT CADMIUM; POWDERS.
811292 | GALLIUM, HAFNIUM, INDIUM, NIOBIUM (COLUMBIUM), RHENIUM & ARTICLES OF THESE METALS, INCLUDING WASTE & SCRAP.
811299 | GALLIUM, HAFNIUM, INDIUM, NIOBIUM (COLUMBIUM), RHENIUM AND THALLIUM AND ARTICLES THEREOF, NESOI.
811300 | CERMETS AND ARTICLES THEREOF, INCLUDING WASTE AND SCRAP.
820110 | SPADES AND SHOVELS AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820130 | MATTOCKS, PICKS, HOES AND RAKES, AND PARTS THEREOF OF BASE METAL.
820140 | AXES, BILL HOOKS AND SIMILAR HEWING TOOLS, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820150 | ONE-HANDED SECATEURS AND SIMILAR ONE-HANDED PRUNERS AND SHEARS (INCLUDING POULTRY SHEARS), AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820160 | HEDGE SHEARS, TWO-HANDED PRUNING SHEARS AND SIMILAR TWO-HANDED SHEARS, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820190 | HANDTOOLS NESOI, OF A KIND USED IN AGRICULTURE, HORTICULTURE OR FORESTRY, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820210 | HANDSAWS AND PARTS THEREOF (EXCEPT BLADES) OF BASE METAL.
820220 | BANDSAW BLADES, AND BASE METAL PARTS THEREOF.
820231 | CIRCULAR SAW BLADES OF BASE METAL, WITH WORKING PART OF STEEL, AND PARTS THEREOF.
820239 | CIRCULAR SAW BLADES OF BASE METAL WITH WORKING PART OF MATERIAL OTHER THAN STEEL, AND PARTS.
820240 | CHAIN SAW BLADES (LENGTHS OR CUT TO SIZE), AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820291 | STRAIGHT SAW BLADES FOR WORKING METAL, OF BASE METAL.
820299 | SAW BLADES NESOI, AND PARTS OF SAW BLADES NESOI, OF BASE METAL.
820310 | FILES, RASPS AND SIMILAR TOOLS, OF BASE METAL.
820320 | PLIERS (INCLUDING CUTTING PLIERS), PINCERS, TWEEZERS, AND SIMILAR TOOLS, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820330 | METAL CUTTING SHEARS AND SIMILAR TOOLS, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820340 | PIPE CUTTERS, BOLT CUTTERS, PERFORATING PUNCHES AND SIMILAR TOOLS, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820411 | SPANNERS AND WRENCHES, HAND-OPERATED, NON-ADJUSTABLE, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820412 | SPANNERS AND WRENCHES, HAND-OPERATED, ADJUSTABLE, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820420 | SOCKET WRENCHES WITH OR WITHOUT HANDLES, DRIVES AND EXTENSIONS, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820510 | DRILLING, THREADING OR TAPPING TOOLS, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820520 | HAMMERS AND SLEDGE HAMMERS AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820530 | PLANES, CHISELS, GOUGES AND SIMILAR CUTTING TOOLS FOR WOOD WORKING, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820540 | SCREWDRIVERS, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820551 | HOUSEHOLD HANDTOOLS NESOI, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820559 | HANDTOOLS NESOI, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820560 | BLOW TORCHES AND SIMILAR SELF-CONTAINED TORCHES, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820570 | VISES, CLAMPS AND THE LIKE, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820590 | HANDTOOLS, INCLUDING SETS OF ARTICLES OF TWO OR MORE SUBHEADINGS OF 8205, NESOI.
820600 | TOOLS OF TWO OR MORE OF THE HEADINGS 8202 TO 8205 (SAWS, FILES, PLIERS, WRENCHES ETC. AND HANDTOOLS ETC. NESOI) PUT UP IN SETS FOR RETAIL SALE.
820720 | DIES FOR DRAWING OR EXTRUDING METAL, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820730 | TOOLS FOR PRESSING, STAMPING OR PUNCHING, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820740 | TOOLS FOR TAPPING OR THREADING, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820750 | TOOLS FOR DRILLING, OTHER THAN ROCK DRILLING, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820760 | TOOLS FOR BORING OR BROACHING, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820770 | TOOLS FOR MILLING, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820780 | TOOLS FOR TURNING, OF BASE METAL.
820790 | INTERCHANGEABLE TOOLS NESOI, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820810 | KNIVES AND CUTTING BLADES FOR METAL WORKING, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820820 | KNIVES AND CUTTING BLADES FOR WOOD WORKING, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820830 | KNIVES AND CUTTING BLADES FOR KITCHEN APPLIANCES OR FOR MACHINES USED BY THE FOOD INDUSTRY, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820840 | KNIVES AND CUTTING BLADES FOR AGRICULTURAL OR FORESTRY MACHINES, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820890 | KNIVES AND CUTTING BLADES FOR MACHINES OR MECHANICAL APPLIANCES NESOI, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
820900 | PLATES, STICKS, TIPS AND THE LIKE FOR TOOLS, UNMOUNTED, OF CERMETS.
821000 | HAND-OPERATED MECHANICAL APPLIANCES, WEIGHING NOT OVER 10 KG, FOR PREPARING, CONDITIONING OR SERVING FOOD OR DRINK, AND BASE METAL PARTS THEREOF.
821110 | SETS OF ASSORTED KNIVES AND BLADES, OTHER THAN KNIVES FOR MACHINES OR MECHANICAL APPLIANCES AND BLADES THEREFOR OF HEADING 8208.
821191 | TABLE KNIVES HAVING FIXED BLADES, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
821192 | KNIVES, OTHER THAN TABLE KNIVES, HAVING FIXED BLADES, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
821193 | KNIVES HAVING OTHER THAN FIXED BLADES, AND PARTS THEREOF (EXCEPT BLADES), OF BASE METAL.
821194 | BLADES FOR KNIVES, NESOI.
821195 | HANDLES OF BASE METAL FOR KNIVES WITH CUTTING BLADES, OTHER THAN THOSE OF 8208.
821210 | RAZORS.
821220 | SAFETY RAZOR BLADES, INCLUDING BLADE BLANKS IN STRIPS.
821290 | PARTS FOR RAZORS NESOI, OF BASE METAL.
821300 | SCISSORS, TAILORS' SHEARS AND SIMILAR SHEARS, AND BLADES AND OTHER BASE METAL PARTS THEREOF.
821410 | PAPER KNIVES, LETTER OPENERS, ERASING KNIVES, PENCIL SHARPENERS (NONMECHANICAL), BLADES, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
821420 | MANICURE OR PEDICURE SETS AND INSTRUMENTS (INCLUDING NAIL FILES) AND BASE METAL PARTS THEREOF.
821490 | ARTICLES OF CUTLERY NESOI, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
821510 | SETS OF ASSORTED KITCHENWARE OR TABLEWARE OF BASE METAL, CONTAINING AT LEAST ONE ARTICLE PLATED WITH PRECIOUS METAL.
821520 | SETS OF ASSORTED KITCHENWARE OR TABLEWARE OF BASE METAL, CONTAINING NO ARTICLES PLATED WITH PRECIOUS METAL.
821591 | SPOONS, FORKS, LADLES, CAKE-SERVERS, SUGAR TONGS AND LIKE KITCHEN OR TABLEWARE OF BASE METAL (NO SETS), AND PARTS THEREOF, PLATED WITH PRECIOUS METAL.
821599 | SPOONS, FORKS, LADLES, CAKE-SERVERS, SUGAR TONGS AND LIKE KITCHEN OR TABLEWARE OF UNPLATED BASE METAL (NO SETS), AND PARTS THEREOF, NESOI.
830110 | PADLOCKS OF BASE METAL.
830120 | LOCKS OF A KIND USED ON MOTOR VEHICLES, OF BASE METAL.
830130 | LOCKS OF A KIND USED FOR FURNITURE, OF BASE METAL.
830140 | LOCKS (KEY, COMBINATION OR ELECTRICALLY OPERATED), EXCEPT FOR MOTOR VEHICLES OR FURNITURE, OF BASE METAL.
830150 | CLASPS AND FRAMES WITH CLASPS, INCORPORATING LOCKS, OF BASE METAL.
830160 | PARTS OF LOCKS, OF BASE METAL.
830170 | KEYS PRESENTED SEPARATELY FOR PADLOCKS OR LOCKS, OF BASE METAL.
830210 | HINGES, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
830220 | CASTORS, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
830230 | MOUNTINGS, FITTINGS AND SIMILAR ARTICLES NESOI (EXCEPT HINGES), AND PARTS THEREOF, SUITABLE FOR MOTOR VEHICLES, OF BASE METAL.
830241 | MOUNTINGS, FITTINGS AND SIMILAR ARTICLES NESOI (EXCEPT HINGES AND CASTORS), AND PARTS THEREOF, SUITABLE FOR BUILDINGS, OF BASE METAL.
830242 | MOUNTINGS, FITTINGS AND SIMILAR ARTICLES NESOI (EXCEPT HINGES AND CASTORS), AND PARTS THEREOF, SUITABLE FOR FURNITURE, OF BASE METAL.
830249 | MOUNTINGS, FITTINGS AND SIMILAR ARTICLES, AND PARTS THEREOF, NESOI, OF BASE METAL.
830250 | HAT-RACKS, HAT PEGS, BRACKETS AND SIMILAR FIXTURES, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
830260 | AUTOMATIC DOOR CLOSURES, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
830300 | ARMORED OR REINFORCED SAFES, STRONG-BOXES, DOORS AND SAFE DEPOSIT LOCKERS FOR STRONG-ROOMS, CASH OR DEED BOXES ETC., AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
830400 | DESK-TOP FILING OR CARD-INDEX CABINETS, PAPER TRAYS, PAPER RESTS, PEN TRAYS AND SIMILAR DESK ETC. ITEMS (NO FURNITURE) AND THEIR PARTS, OF BASE METAL.
830510 | FITTINGS FOR LOOSELEAF BINDERS OR FILES, OF BASE METAL.
830520 | STAPLES IN STRIPS, OF BASE METAL.
830590 | LETTER CLIPS, LETTER CORNERS, PAPER CLIPS, INDEXING TAGS AND SIMILAR OFFICE ARTICLES, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
830610 | BELLS, GONGS AND THE LIKE, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
830630 | PHOTOGRAPH, PICTURE OR SIMILAR FRAMES AND MIRRORS, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
830710 | FLEXIBLE TUBING, OF IRON OR STEEL.
830790 | FLEXIBLE TUBING, OF BASE METAL, OTHER THAN IRON OR STEEL.
830810 | HOOKS, EYES AND EYELETS, OF BASE METAL.
830820 | TUBULAR OR BIFURCATED RIVETS, OF BASE METAL.
830890 | CLASPS, FRAMES WITH CLASPS, BUCKLES, BUCKLE CLASPS, AND PARTS THEREOF, NESOI, OF BASE METAL.
830910 | CROWN CORKS (INCLUDING CROWN SEALS AND CAPS), AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
830990 | STOPPERS, CAPS AND LIDS NESOI (NOT CROWN), CAPSULES FOR BOTTLES, BUNGS, SEALS AND OTHER PACKING ACCESSORIES, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
831000 | SIGN PLATES, NAME PLATES, ADDRESS PLATES AND SIMILAR PLATES, NUMBERS, LETTERS AND OTHER SYMBOLS (NOT ILLUMINATED), AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL.
831110 | COATED ELECTRODES OF BASE METAL, FOR ELECTRIC ARC-WELDING.
831120 | CORED WIRE OF BASE METAL, FOR ELECTRIC ARC-WELDING.
831130 | COATED RODS AND CORED WIRE, OF BASE METAL, FOR SOLDERING, BRAZING OR WELDING BY FLAME.
831190 | TUBES, PLATES ETC. OF BASE METAL OR METAL CARBIDES WITH FLUX MATERIAL FOR WELDING ETC.; WIRE AND RODS OF AGGLOMERATED BASE METAL POWDER; PARTS THEREOF.
840110 | NUCLEAR REACTORS.
840120 | ISOTOPIC SEPARATION MACHINERY AND APPARATUS, AND PARTS THEREOF.
840130 | FUEL ELEMENTS (CARTRIDGES), NON-IRRADIATED, FOR NUCLEAR REACTORS, AND PARTS THEREOF.
840140 | PARTS OF NUCLEAR REACTORS.
840211 | WATERTUBE BOILERS WITH A STEAM PRODUCTION EXCEEDING 45 T PER HOUR.
840212 | WATERTUBE BOILERS WITH A STEAM PRODUCTION NOT EXCEEDING 45 T PER HOUR.
840219 | VAPOR GENERATING BOILERS, NESOI, INCLUDING HYBRID BOILERS.
840220 | SUPER-HEATED WATER BOILERS.
840290 | PARTS FOR SUPER-HEATED WATER BOILERS AND STEAM OR OTHER VAPOR GENERATION BOILERS (OTHER THAN CENTRAL HEATING HOT WATER BOILERS).
840310 | CENTRAL HEATING BOILERS.
840390 | PARTS FOR CENTRAL HEATING BOILERS.
840410 | AUXILIARY PLANT FOR USE WITH STEAM OR OTHER VAPOR GENERATING BOILERS, SUPER-HEATED WATER BOILERS AND CENTRAL HEATING BOILERS.
840420 | CONDENSERS FOR STEAM OR OTHER VAPOR POWER UNITS.
840490 | PARTS FOR AUXILIARY PLANT FOR USE WITH STEAM OR OTHER VAPOR GENERATING BOILERS AND CONDENSER POWER UNITS, SUPER-HEATED AND CENTRAL HEATING BOILERS.
840510 | PRODUCER GAS AND WATER GAS GENERATORS, ACTYLENE GAS AND SIMILAR WATER PROCESS GAS GENERATORS, WITH OR WITHOUT THEIR PURIFIERS.
840590 | PARTS FOR PRODUCER GAS AND WATER GAS GENERATORS, ACTYLENE GAS AND SIMILAR PROCESS GAS GENERATORS.
840610 | TURBINES, STEAM AND OTHER VAPOR TYPES, FOR MARINE PROPULSION.
840681 | TURBINES, STEAM AND OTHER VAPOR TYPES, OF AN OUTPUT EXCEEDING 40 MW, EXCEPT FOR MARINE PROPULSION.
840682 | TURBINES, STEAM AND OTHER VAPOR TYPES, OF AN OUTPUT NOT EXCEEDING 40 MW, EXCEPT FOR MARINE PROPULSION.
840690 | PARTS FOR STEAM AND OTHER VAPOR TURBINES.
840710 | AIRCRAFT SPARK-IGNITION RECIPROCATING OR ROTARY INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINES.
840721 | OUTBOARD ENGINES FOR MARINE PROPULSION.
840729 | INBOARD ENGINES FOR MARINE PROPULSION.
840731 | SPARK-IGNITION RECIPROCATING PISTON ENGINES FOR PROPULSION OF VEHICLES EXCEPT RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY STOCK, NOT OVER 50 CC CYLINDER CAPACITY.
840732 | SPARK-IGNITION RECIPROCATING PISTON ENGINES FOR PROPULSION OF VEHICLES EXCEPT RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY STOCK, OVER 50 BUT NOT OVER 250 CC CYLINDER CAPACITY.
840733 | SPARK-IGNITION RECIPROCATING PISTON ENGINES FOR PROPULSION OF VEHICLES EXCEPT RAIL OR TRAMWAY STOCK, OVER 250 BUT NOT OVER 1,000 CC CYLINDER CAPACITY.
840734 | SPARK-IGNITION RECIPROCATING PISTON ENGINES FOR PROPULSION OF VEHICLES EXCEPT RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY STOCK, OVER 1,000 CC CYLINDER CAPACITY.
840790 | SPARK-IGNITION RECIPROCATING OR ROTARY INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINES, NESOI.
840810 | MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINES (DIESEL OR SEMI-DIESEL ENGINES).
840820 | COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINES (DIESEL OR SEMI-DIESEL), FOR THE PROPULSION OF VEHICLES EXCEPT RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY STOCK.
840890 | COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINES (DIESEL OR SEMI-DIESEL ENGINES), NESOI.
840910 | PARTS FOR SPARK-IGNITION OR ROTARY INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINES OR COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINES, FOR AIRCRAFT.
840991 | PARTS FOR USE WITH SPARK-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINES (INCLUDING ROTARY ENGINES), NESOI.
840999 | PARTS FOR USE WITH COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINES, NESOI.
841011 | HYDRAULIC TURBINES AND WATER WHEELS, OF A POWER NOT EXCEEDING 1,000 KW.
841012 | HYDRAULIC TURBINES AND WATER WHEELS, OF A POWER EXCEEDING 1,000 KW BUT NOT EXCEEDING 10,000 KW.
841013 | HYDRAULIC TURBINES AND WATER WHEELS, OF A POWER EXCEEDING 10,000 KW.
841090 | PARTS, INCLUDING REGULATORS, FOR HYDRAULIC TURBINES AND WATER WHEELS.
841111 | TURBOJETS OF A THRUST NOT EXCEEDING 25 KN.
841112 | TURBOJETS OF A THRUST EXCEEDING 25 KN.
841121 | TURBOPROPELLERS OF A POWER NOT EXCEEDING 1,100 KW.
841122 | TURBOPROPELLERS OF A POWER EXCEEDING 1,100 KW.
841181 | GAS TURBINES, EXCEPT TURBOJETS AND TURBOPROPELLERS, OF A POWER NOT EXCEEDING 5,000 KW.
841182 | GAS TURBINES, EXCEPT TURBOJETS AND TURBOPROPELLERS, OF A POWER EXCEEDING 5,000 KW.
841191 | PARTS OF TURBOJETS OR TURBOPROPELLERS.
841199 | PARTS OF GAS TURBINES, NESOI (OTHER THAN PARTS FOR TURBOJETS OR TURBOPROPELLERS).
841210 | REACTION ENGINES OTHER THAN TURBOJETS.
841221 | HYDRAULIC POWER ENGINES AND MOTORS, LINEAR ACTING (CYLINDERS).
841229 | HYDRAULIC POWER ENGINES AND MOTORS, EXCEPT LINEAR ACTING (CYLINDERS).
841231 | PNEUMATIC POWER ENGINES AND MOTORS, LINEAR ACTING (CYLINDERS).
841239 | PNEUMATIC POWER ENGINES AND MOTORS, EXCEPT LINEAR ACTING (CYLINDERS).
841280 | ENGINES AND MOTORS, NESOI.
841290 | PARTS FOR ENGINES AND MOTORS, NESOI.
841311 | PUMPS FOR DISPENSING FUEL OR LUBRICANTS, OF A TYPE USED IN FILLING-STATIONS OR GARAGES.
841319 | PUMPS FITTED OR DESIGNED TO BE FITTED WITH A MEASURING DEVISE, NESOI.
841320 | HAND PUMPS, OTHER THAN PUMPS FITTED OR DESIGNED TO BE FITTED WITH A MEASURING DEVICE.
841330 | FUEL, LUBRICATING OR COOLING MEDIUM PUMPS FOR INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINES.
841340 | CONCRETE PUMPS.
841350 | RECIPROCATING POSITIVE DISPLACEMENT PUMPS, NESOI.
841360 | ROTARY POSITIVE DISPLACEMENT PUMPS, NESOI.
841370 | CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS, NESOI.
841381 | PUMPS FOR LIQUIDS, NESOI.
841382 | LIQUID ELEVATORS.
841391 | PARTS OF PUMPS FOR LIQUIDS.
841392 | PARTS OF LIQUID ELEVATORS.
841410 | VACUUM PUMPS.
841420 | HAND- OR FOOT-OPERATED AIR PUMPS.
841430 | COMPRESSORS USED IN REFRIGERATING EQUIPMENT (INCLUDING AIR CONDITIONING).
841440 | AIR COMPRESSORS MOUNTED ON A WHEELED CHASSIS FOR TOWING.
841451 | FANS, TABLE, FLOOR, WALL, WINDOW, CEILING OR ROOF, WITH SELF-CONTAINED ELECTRIC MOTOR OF AN OUTPUT NOT EXCEEDING 125 W.
841459 | FANS, NESOI.
841460 | VENTILATING OR RECYCLING HOODS INCORPORATING A FAN, HAVING A MAXIMUM HORIZINTAL SIDE NOT EXCEEDING 120 CM.
841470 | FILTERING OR PURIFYING MACHINERY AND APPARATUS FOR GASES, NESOI.
841480 | AIR PUMPS AND AIR OR OTHER GAS COMPRESSORS, NESOI; VENTILATING OR RECYCLING HOODS INCORPORATING A FAN, NESOI.
841490 | PARTS FOR AIR OR VACUUM PUMPS, AIR OR OTHER GAS COMPRESSORS AND FANS; PARTS OF VENTILATING OR RECYCLING HOODS INCORPORATING A FAN, NESOI.
841510 | AIR CONDITIONING MACHINES, WINDOW OR WALL TYPES, SELF-CONTAINED OR “SPLIT-SYSTEM“.
841520 | AUTOMOTIVE AIR CONDITIONERS.
841581 | AIR CONDITIONING MACHINES NESOI, INCORPORATING A REFRIGERATING UNIT AND VALVE FOR REVERSAL OF THE COOLING/HEAT CYCLE (REVERSIBLE HEAT PUMPS).
841582 | AIR CONDITIONING MACHINES NESOI, INCORPORATING A REFRIGERATING UNIT, NESOI.
841583 | AIR CONDITIONING MACHINES NESOI, NOT INCORPORATING A REFRIGERATING UNIT.
841590 | PARTS, NESOI, OF AIR CONDITIONING MACHINES.
841610 | FURNACE BURNERS FOR LIQUID FUEL.
841620 | FURNACE BURNERS FOR PULVERIZED SOLID FUEL OR FOR GAS, INCLUDING COMBINATION BURNERS.
841630 | MECHANICAL STOKERS INCLUDING THEIR MECHANICAL GRATES, MECHANICAL ASH DISCHARGERS AND SIMILAR APPLIANCES.
841690 | PARTS OF FURNACE BURNERS FOR LIQUID FUEL, PULVERIZED SOLID FUEL OR GAS; PARTS OF MECHANICAL STOKERS, GRATES, ASH DISCHARGERS AND SIMILAR APPLIANCES.
841710 | INDUSTRIAL OR LABORATORY FURNACES AND OVENS, FOR THE HEAT TREATMENT OF ORES, PYRITES OR METALS, NONELECTRIC.
841720 | BAKERY OVENS, INCLUDING BISCUIT OVENS, NONELECTRIC.
841780 | INDUSTRIAL OR LABORATORY FURNACES AND OVENS, INCLUDING INCINERATORS, NONELECTRIC, NESOI.
841790 | PARTS OF INDUSTRIAL OR LABORATORY FURNACES AND OVENS, INCLUDING PARTS OF INCINERATORS, NONELECTRIC.
841810 | COMBINED REFRIGERATOR-FREEZERS FITTED WITH SEPARATE EXTERNAL DOORS.
841821 | REFRIGERATORS, HOUSEHOLD, COMPRESSION TYPE.
841829 | REFRIGERATORS, HOUSEHOLD TYPE, NESOI.
841830 | FREEZERS, CHEST TYPE, CAPACITY NOT EXCEEDING 800 LITERS.
841840 | FREEZERS, UPRIGHT TYPE, CAPACITY NOT EXCEEDING 900 LITERS.
841850 | REFRIGERATING OR FREEZING CHESTS, DISPLAY COUNTERS, CABINETS, SHOWCASES AND SIMILAR EQUIPMENT, NESOI.
841861 | COMPRESSION TYPE HEAT PUMP UNITS WHOSE CONDENSERS ARE HEAT EXCHANGERS (EXCLUDING REVERSIBLE HEAT PUMPS CAPABLE OF CHANGING TEMPERATURE AND HUMIDITY).
841869 | REFRIGERATING OR FREEZING EQUIPMENT, NESOI.
841891 | FURNITURE DESIGNED TO RECEIVE REFRIGERATING OR FREEZING EQUIPMENT.
841899 | PARTS OF REFRIGERATION OR FREEZING EQUIPMENT AND HEAT PUMPS, NESOI.
841911 | INSTANTANEOUS GAS WATER HEATERS.
841912 | INSTANTANEOUS OR STORAGE WATER HEATERS, EXCEPT INSTANTANEOUS GAS WATER HEATERS, NONELECTRIC.
841919 | INSTANTANEOUS OR STORAGE WATER HEATERS, EXCEPT INSTANTANEOUS GAS WATER HEATERS, NONELECTRIC.
841920 | MEDICAL, SURGICAL OR LABORATORY STERILIZERS.
841933 | DRYERS FOR AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS.
841934 | DRYERS FOR AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS.
841935 | DRYERS FOR WOOD, PAPER PULP, PAPER OR PAPERBOARD.
841939 | DRYERS, NESOI.
841940 | DISTILLING OR RECTIFYING PLANT.
841950 | HEAT EXCHANGE UNITS, INDUSTRIAL TYPE.
841960 | MACHINERY FOR LIQUEFYING AIR OR OTHER GASES.
841981 | MACHINERY, PLANT OR EQUIPMENT FOR MAKING HOT DRINKS OR FOR COOKING OR HEATING FOOD.
841989 | MACHINERY, PLANT OR LABORATORY EQUIPMENT FOR THE TREATMENT OF MATERIAL INVOLVING TEMPERATURE CHANGE (EXCEPT DOMESTIC MACHINERY), NESOI.
841990 | PARTS FOR MACHINERY, PLANT OR LABORATORY EQUIPMENT FOR THE TREATMENT OF MATERIAL INVOLVING TEMPERATURE CHANGE (EXCEPT DOMESTIC MACHINERY), NESOI.
842010 | CALENDERING OR OTHER ROLLING MACHINES, OTHER THAN FOR METALS OR GLASS.
842091 | CYLINDERS FOR CALENDERING OR OTHER ROLLING MACHINES, OTHER THAN FOR METALS OR GLASS.
842099 | PARTS, EXCEPT CYLINDERS, FOR CALENDERING OR OTHER ROLLING MACHINES, OTHER THAN FOR METALS OR GLASS.
842111 | CREAM SEPARATORS, CENTRIFUGAL.
842112 | CLOTHES-DRYERS, CENTRIFUGAL.
842119 | CENTRIFUGES, INCLUDING CENTRIFUGAL DRYERS (OTHER THAN CLOTHES DRYERS), NESOI.
842121 | WATER FILTERING OR PURIFYING MACHINERY AND APPARATUS.
842122 | BEVERAGE FILTERING OR PURIFYING MACHINERY AND APPARATUS, OTHER THAN WATER.
842123 | OIL OR FUEL FILTERS FOR INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES.
842129 | FILTERING OR PURIFYING MACHINERY AND APPARATUS FOR LIQUIDS, NESOI.
842131 | INTAKE AIR FILTERS FOR INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES.
842132 | FILTERING OR PURIFYING MACHINERY AND APPARATUS FOR GASES, NESOI.
842139 | FILTERING OR PURIFYING MACHINERY AND APPARATUS FOR GASES, NESOI.
842191 | PARTS OF CENTRIFUGES, INCLUDING CENTRIFUGAL DRYERS.
842199 | PARTS FOR FILTERING OR PURIFYING MACHINERY AND APPARATUS FOR LIQUIDS OR GASES.
842211 | DISHWASHING MACHINES, HOUSEHOLD TYPE.
842219 | DISHWASHING MACHINES, EXCEPT HOUSEHOLD TYPE.
842220 | MACHINERY FOR CLEANING OR DRYING BOTTLES OR OTHER CONTAINERS.
842230 | MACHINERY FOR FILLING, CLOSING, SEALING, CAPSULING OR LABELING BOTTLES, CANS, BOXES OR OTHER CONTAINERS; MACHINERY FOR AERATING BEVERAGES.
842240 | PACKING OR WRAPPING MACHINERY (INCLUDING HEAT-SHRINK WRAPPING MACHINERY), NESOI.
842290 | PARTS FOR MACHINES FOR DISHWASHING, FOR CLEANING, FILLING ETC. CONTAINERS AND FOR PACKING AND WRAPPING; PARTS OF MACHINES FOR AERATING BEVERAGES.
842310 | PERSONAL WEIGHING MACHINES, INCLUDING BABY SCALES; HOUSEHOLD SCALES.
842320 | SCALES FOR CONTINUOUS WEIGHING OF GOODS ON CONVEYORS.
842330 | CONSTANT-WEIGHT SCALES AND SCALES FOR DISCHARGING A PREDETERMINED WEIGHT OF MATERIAL INTO A BAG OR CONTAINER, INCLUDING HOPPER SCALES.
842381 | WEIGHING MACHINERY, NESOI, HAVING A MAXIMUM WEIGHING CAPACITY NOT EXCEEDING 30 KG.
842382 | WEIGHING MACHINERY, NESOI, HAVING A MAXIMUM WEIGHING CAPACITY EXCEEDING 30 KG BUT NOT EXCEEDING 5,000 KG.
842389 | WEIGHING MACHINERY, NESOI, HAVING A MAXIMUM WEIGHING CAPACITY EXCEEDING 5,000 KG.
842390 | WEIGHING MACHINE WEIGHTS OF ALL KINDS; PARTS OF WEIGHING MACHINERY.
842410 | FIRE EXTINGUISHERS, WHETHER OR NOT CHARGED.
842420 | SPRAY GUNS AND SIMILAR APPLIANCES.
842430 | STEAM OR SAND BLASTING MACHINES AND SIMILAR JET PROJECTING MACHINES.
842441 | PORTABLE AGRICULTURAL OR HORTICULTURAL SPRAYERS, FOR PROJECTING, DISPERSING OR SPRAYING LIQUID OR POWDERS.
842449 | AGRICULTURAL OR HORTICULTURAL SPRAYERS, OTHER THAN PORTABLE SPRAYERS.
842482 | MECHANICAL APPLINACES FOR AGRICULTURAL OR HORTICULTURAL USE FOR PROJECTING, DISPERSING OR SPRAYING LIQUIDS OR POWEDERS, NESOI.
842489 | MECHANICAL APPLIANCES FOR PROJECTING, DISPERSING OR SPRAYING LIQUIDS OR POWDERS, NESOI.
842490 | PARTS FOR MECHANICAL APPLIANCES FOR PROJECTING, DISPERSING OR SPRAYING, FIRE EXTINGUISHERS, SPRAY GUNS, AND STEAM OR SAND BLASTING MACHINES.
842511 | PULLEY TACKLE AND HOISTS, OTHER THAN SKIP HOISTS OR HOISTS OF A KIND USED FOR RAISING VEHICLES, POWERED BY ELECTRIC MOTOR.
842519 | PULLEY TACKLE AND HOISTS, OTHER THAN SKIP HOISTS OR HOISTS OF A KIND USED FOR RAISING VEHICLES, NOT POWERED BY ELECTRIC MOTOR.
842531 | WINCHES AND CAPSTANS POWERED BY ELECTRIC MOTORS.
842539 | WINCHES AND CAPSTANS, NOT POWERED BY ELECTRIC MOTORS.
842541 | BUILT-IN JACKING SYSTEMS OF A TYPE USED IN GARAGES.
842542 | JACKS AND HOISTS, HYDRAULIC, EXCEPT BUILT-IN JACKING SYSTEMS USED IN GARAGES.
842549 | JACKS, NESOI; HOISTS OF A KIND USED FOR RAISING VEHICLES, NESOI.
842611 | OVERHEAD TRAVELING CRANES ON FIXED SUPPORT.
842612 | MOBILE LIFTING FRAMES ON TIRES AND STRADDLE CARRIERS.
842619 | OVERHEAD TRAVELING CRANES, TRANSPORTER CRANES, GANTRY AND BRIDGE CRANES, MOBILE LIFTING FRAMES AND STRADDLE CARRIES, NESOI.
842620 | TOWER CRANES.
842630 | PORTAL OR PEDESTAL JIB CRANES.
842641 | DERRICKS, CRANES, NESOI AND WORKS TRUCKS FITTED WITH A CRANE, SELF-PROPELLED, ON TIRES.
842649 | DERRICKS, CRANES, NESOI AND WORKS TRUCKS FITTED WITH A CRANE, SELF-PROPELLED, NOT ON TIRES.
842691 | LIFTING OR HANDLING MACHINERY DESIGNED FOR MOUNTING ON ROAD VEHICLES.
842699 | LIFTING OR HANDLING MACHINERY, NESOI.
842710 | SELF-PROPELLED LIFTING OR HANDLING TRUCKS POWERED BY AN ELECTRIC MOTOR.
842720 | SELF-PROPELLED LIFTING OR HANDLING TRUCKS POWERED BY OTHER THAN AN ELECTRIC MOTOR.
842790 | FORK-LIFT AND OTHER WORKS TRUCKS FITTED WITH LIFTING OR HANDLING EQUIPMENT, OTHER THAN SELF-PROPELLED, NESOI.
842810 | PASSENGER OR FREIGHT ELEVATORS OTHER THAN CONTINUOUS ACTION; SKIP HOISTS.
842820 | PNEUMATIC ELEVATORS AND CONVEYORS.
842831 | CONTINUOUS-ACTION ELEVATORS AND CONVEYORS, FOR GOODS OR MATERIALS, SPECIALLY DESIGNED FOR UNDERGROUND USE.
842832 | CONTINUOUS-ACTION ELEVATORS AND CONVEYORS, FOR GOODS OR MATERIALS, OTHER THAN FOR UNDERGROUND USE, BUCKET TYPE.
842833 | CONTINUOUS-ACTION ELEVATORS AND CONVEYORS, FOR GOODS OR MATERIALS, OTHER THAN FOR UNDERGROUND USE, BELT TYPE.
842839 | CONTINUOUS-ACTION ELEVATORS AND CONVEYORS, FOR GOODS OR MATERIALS, OTHER THAN FOR UNDERGROUND USE, NESOI.
842840 | ESCALATORS AND MOVING WALKWAYS.
842860 | TELEFERICS, CHAIR LIFTS, SKI DRAGLINES; TRACTION MECHANISMS FOR FUNICULARS.
842870 | LIFTING, HANDLING, LOADING OR UNLOADING MACHINERY NESOI.
842890 | LIFTING, HANDLING, LOADING OR UNLOADING MACHINERY NESOI.
842911 | BULLDOZERS AND ANGLEDOZERS, SELF-PROPELLED, TRACK LAYING.
842919 | BULLDOZERS AND ANGLEDOZERS, SELF-PROPELLED, OTHER THAN TRACK LAYING.
842920 | GRADERS AND LEVELERS, SELF-PROPELLED.
842930 | SCRAPERS, SELF-PROPELLED.
842940 | TAMPING MACHINES AND ROAD ROLLERS, SELF-PROPELLED.
842951 | MECHANICAL FRONT-END SHOVEL LOADERS, SELF-PROPELLED.
842952 | MECHANICAL SHOVELS, EXCAVATORS AND SHOVEL LOADERS WITH 360 DEGREE REVOLVING SUPERSTRUCTURE, SELF-PROPELLED.
842959 | MECHANICAL SHOVELS, EXCAVATORS AND SHOVEL LOADERS NESOI, SELF-PROPELLED.
843010 | PILE-DRIVERS AND PILE-EXTRACTORS.
843020 | SNOWPLOWS AND SNOWBLOWERS.
843031 | COAL OR ROCK CUTTERS AND TUNNELING MACHINERY, SELF-PROPELLED.
843039 | COAL OR ROCK CUTTERS AND TUNNELING MACHINERY, OTHER THAN SELF-PROPELLED.
843041 | BORING OR SINKING MACHINERY, NESOI, SELF-PROPELLED.
843049 | BORING OR SINKING MACHINERY, NESOI, OTHER THAN SELF-PROPELLED.
843050 | MOVING, GRADING, LEVELING, SCRAPING, EXCAVATING, TAMPING, COMPACTING OR EXTRACTING MACHINERY FOR EARTH, MINERALS OR ORES, NESOI, SELF-PROPELLED.
843061 | TAMPING OR COMPACTING MACHINERY, NOT SELF-PROPELLED.
843069 | MOVING, GRADING, LEVELING, EXCAVATING, EXTRACTING MACHINERY FOR EARTH, MINERALS OR ORES, NESOI, NOT SELF-PROPELLED.
843110 | PARTS FOR PULLEY TACKLE AND HOISTS (OTHER THAN SKIP HOISTS), WINCHES, CAPSTANS AND JACKS.
843120 | PARTS FOR FORK-LIFT TRUCKS AND OTHER WORKS TRUCKS FITTED WITH LIFTING OR HANDLING EQUIPMENT.
843131 | PARTS FOR PASSENGER OR FREIGHT ELEVATORS OTHER THAN CONTINUOUS ACTION, SKIP HOISTS OR ESCALATORS.
843139 | PARTS FOR LIFTING, HANDLING, LOADING OR UNLOADING MACHINERY, NESOI.
843141 | BUCKETS, SHOVELS, GRABS AND GRIPS FOR DERRICKS, CRANES, BULLDOZERS, ANGLEDOZERS, GRADERS, SCRAPERS, BORERS, EXTRACTING, ETC. MACHINERY.
843142 | BULLDOZER OR ANGLEDOZER BLADES.
843143 | PARTS FOR BORING OR SINKING MACHINERY, NESOI.
843149 | PARTS AND ATTACHMENTS, NESOI, FOR DERRICKS, CRANES, SELF-PROPELLED BULLDOZERS, GRADERS ETC. AND OTHER GRADING, SCRAPING, ETC. MACHINERY.
843210 | PLOWS FOR SOIL PREPARATION OR CULTIVATION.
843221 | DISC HARROWS.
843229 | HARROWS (EXCEPT DISC), SCARIFIERS, CULTIVATORS, WEEDERS AND HOES.
843231 | NO-TILL DIRECT SEEDERS, PLANTERS AND TRANSPLANTERS.
843239 | SEEDERS, PLANTERS AND TRANSPLANTERS, NESOI.
843241 | MANURE SPREADERS.
843242 | FERTILIZER DISTRIBUTORS.
843280 | AGRICULTURAL, HORTICULTURAL OR FORESTRY MACHINERY FOR SOIL PREPARATION OR CULTIVATION, NESOI; LAWN OR SPORTS GROUND ROLLERS.
843290 | PARTS FOR AGRICULTURAL, HORTICULTURAL OR FORESTRY MACHINERY (FOR SOIL PREPARATION OR CULTIVATION) AND PARTS FOR LAWN OR GROUND ROLLERS.
843311 | MOWERS FOR LAWNS, PARKS OR SPORTS GROUNDS, POWERED WITH THE CUTTING DEVICE ROTATING IN A HORIZONTAL PLANE.
843319 | MOWERS FOR LAWNS, PARKS OR SPORTS GROUNDS, EXCEPT POWERED WITH THE CUTTING DEVICE ROTATING IN A HORIZONTAL PLANE.
843320 | MOWERS, NESOI, INCLUDING CUTTER BARS FOR TRACTOR MOUNTING.
843330 | HAYING MACHINES, OTHER THAN MOWERS.
843340 | STRAW OR FODDER BALERS, INCLUDING PICK-UP BALERS.
843351 | COMBINE HARVESTER-THRESHERS.
843352 | THRESHING MACHINERY, EXCEPT COMBINE HARVESTER-THRESHERS.
843353 | ROOT OR TUBER HARVESTING MACHINES.
843359 | HARVESTING MACHINERY, NESOI.
843360 | MACHINES FOR CLEANING, SORTING OR GRADING EGGS, FRUIT OR OTHER AGRICULTURAL PRODUCE.
843390 | PARTS FOR HARVESTING OR THRESHING MACHINERY, MOWERS, BALERS AND MACHINES FOR CLEANING, SORTING OR GRADING EGGS, FRUIT OR OTHER AGRICULTURAL PRODUCE.
843410 | MILKING MACHINES.
843420 | DAIRY MACHINERY.
843490 | PARTS OF MILKING MACHINES AND DAIRY MACHINERY.
843510 | PRESSES, CRUSHERS AND SIMILAR MACHINERY USED IN THE MANUFACTURE OF WINES, CIDER, FRUIT JUICES OR SIMILAR BEVERAGES.
843590 | PARTS OF PRESSES, CRUSHERS AND SIMILAR MACHINERY, USED IN THE MANUFACTURE OF WINE, CIDER, FRUIT JUICES OR SIMILAR BEVERAGES.
843610 | MACHINERY FOR PREPARING ANIMAL FEEDS.
843621 | POULTRY INCUBATORS AND BROODERS.
843629 | POULTRY-KEEPING MACHINERY (OTHER THAN INCUBATORS AND BROODERS).
843680 | AGRICULTURAL, HORTICULTURAL, FORESTRY, BEE-KEEPING MACHINERY, INCLUDING GERMINATION PLANT FITTED WITH MECHANICAL OR THERMAL EQUIPMENT, NESOI.
843691 | PARTS OF POULTRY-KEEPING MACHINERY OR POULTRY INCUBATORS AND BROODERS.
843699 | PARTS OF AGRICULTURAL, HORTICULTURAL, FORESTRY, BEE-KEEPING MACHINERY, INCLUDING GERMINATION PLANT FITTED WITH MECHANICAL OR THERMAL EQUIPMENT, NESOI.
843710 | MACHINES FOR CLEANING, SORTING OR GRADING SEED, GRAIN OR DRIED LEGUMINOUS VEGETABLES.
843780 | MACHINERY USED IN THE MILLING INDUSTRY OR FOR THE WORKING OF CEREALS OR DRIED LEGUMINOUS VEGETABLES, OTHER THAN FARM TYPE MACHINERY.
843790 | PARTS OF MACHINES (NONFARM) USED TO CLEAN, SORT OR GRADE SEED, GRAIN OR DRIED LEGUMINOUS VEGETABLES OR TO WORK CEREALS OR DRIED LEGUMINOUS VEGETABLES.
843810 | BAKERY MACHINERY AND MACHINERY FOR THE MANUFACTURE OF MACARONI, SPAGHETTI OR SIMILAR PRODUCTS.
843820 | MACHINERY FOR THE MANUFACTURE OF CONFECTIONERY, COCOA OR CHOCOLATE.
843830 | MACHINERY FOR SUGAR MANUFACTURE.
843840 | BREWERY MACHINERY.
843850 | MACHINERY FOR THE PREPARATION OF MEAT OR POULTRY.
843860 | MACHINERY FOR THE PREPARATION OF FRUITS, NUTS OR VEGETABLES.
843880 | MACHINERY FOR THE INDUSTRIAL PREPARATION OR MANUFACTURE OF FOOD OR DRINK (NOT FOR THE EXTRACTION ETC. OF ANIMAL OR FIXED VEGETABLE FATS OR OILS) NESOI.
843890 | PARTS OF MACHINERY FOR THE INDUSTRIAL PREPARATION OR MANUFACTURE OF FOOD OR DRINK, NESOI.
843910 | MACHINERY FOR MAKING PULP OF FIBROUS CELLULOSIC MATERIAL.
843920 | MACHINERY FOR MAKING PAPER OR PAPERBOARD.
843930 | MACHINERY FOR FINISHING PAPER OR PAPERBOARD.
843991 | PARTS OF MACHINERY FOR MAKING PULP OF FIBROUS CELLULOSIC MATERIAL.
843999 | PARTS FOR MACHINERY MAKING OR FINISHING PAPER OR PAPERBOARD.
844010 | BOOKBINDING MACHINERY, INCLUDING BOOK-SEWING MACHINES.
844090 | PARTS FOR BOOKBINDING MACHINERY, INCLUDING PARTS FOR BOOK-SEWING MACHINES.
844110 | CUTTING MACHINES FOR PAPER AND PAPERBOARD.
844120 | MACHINES FOR MAKING PAPER BAGS, SACKS OR ENVELOPES.
844130 | MACHINES FOR MAKING PAPER CARTONS, BOXES, CASES, DRUMS AND SIMILAR CONTAINERS, OTHER THAN BY MOLDING.
844140 | MACHINES FOR MOLDING ARTICLES IN PAPER PULP, PAPER OR PAPERBOARD.
844180 | MACHINERY FOR MAKING UP PAPER PULP, PAPER OR PAPERBOARD, NESOI.
844190 | PARTS OF MACHINERY FOR MAKING UP PAPER PULP, PAPER OR PAPERBOARD, INCLUDING PARTS OF CUTTING MACHINES.
844230 | MACHINERY, APPARATUS AND EQUIPMENT, NESOI, FOR PREPARING OR MAKING PRINTING BLOCKS, PLATES, CYLINDERS OR OTHER PRINTING COMPONENTS.
844240 | PARTS OF MACHINERY, APPARATUS AND EQUIPMENT, NESOI, FOR TYPESETTING ETC. AND PREPARING OR MAKING PRINTING BLOCKS OR OTHER PRINTING COMPONENTS.
844250 | PRINTING TYPE, BLOCKS, PLATES, CYLINDERS AND OTHER PRINTING COMPONENTS; BLOCKS, PLATES, CYLINDERS AND LITHOGRAPHIC STONES, PREPARED FOR PRINT PURPOSES.
844311 | OFFSET PRINTING MACHINERY, REEL-FED.
844312 | OFFSET PRINTING MACHINERY, SHEET-FED, OFFICE TYPE (SHEET SIZE NOT EXCEEDING 22X36 CM).
844313 | OFFSET PRINTING MACHINERY, NESOI.
844314 | LETTERPRESS PRINTING MACHINERY, REEL FED, EXCLUDING FLEXOGRAPHIC PRINTING.
844315 | LETTERPRESS PRINTING MACHINERY, OTHER THAN REEL FED, EXCLUDING FLEXOGRAPHIC PRINTING.
844316 | FLEXOGRAPHIC PRINTING MACHINERY.
844317 | GRAVURE PRINTING MACHINERY.
844319 | OFFSET PRINTING MACHINERY, NESOI.
844331 | MACHINES WHICH PERFORM TWO OR MORE OF THE FUNCTIONS OF PRINTING, COPYING OR FAX TRANSMISSION, CAPABLE OF CONNECTING TO AN ADP MACHINE OR TO A NETWORK.
844332 | PRINTERS, COPYING MACHINES AND FACSIMILE MACHINES, NOT COMBINED, CAPABLE OF CONNECTING TO AN AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING MACHINE OR TO A NETWORK.
844339 | PRINTERS, COPYING MACHINES AND FACSIMILE MACHINES, NOT COMBINED, NESOI.
844391 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES OF PRINTING MACHINERY USED FOR PRINTING BY MEANS OF PLATES, CYLINDERS AND OTHER PRINTING COMPONENTS OF HEAD. 8442.
844399 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES OF PRINTERS, COPYING MACHINES AND FACSIMILE MACHINES, NESOI.
844400 | MACHINES FOR EXTRUDING, DRAWING, TEXTURING OR CUTTING MANMADE TEXTILE MATERIALS.
844511 | CARDING MACHINES FOR PREPARING TEXTILE FIBERS.
844512 | COMBING MACHINES FOR PREPARING TEXTILE FIBERS.
844513 | DRAWING OR ROVING MACHINES FOR PREPARING TEXTILE FIBERS.
844519 | MACHINES FOR PREPARING TEXTILE FIBERS, NESOI.
844520 | TEXTILE SPINNING MACHINES.
844530 | TEXTILE DOUBLING OR TWISTING MACHINES.
844540 | TEXTILE WINDING (INCLUDING WEFT WINDING) OR REELING MACHINES.
844590 | MACHINERY FOR PRODUCING TEXTILE YARNS NESOI; MACHINES FOR PREPARING TEXTILE YARNS FOR WEAVING MACHINES (LOOMS), KNITTING AND STICH-BONDING MACHINES.
844610 | WEAVING MACHINES (LOOMS) FOR WEAVING FABRICS OF A WIDTH NOT EXCEEDING 30 CM.
844621 | POWER LOOMS FOR WEAVING FABRICS OF A WIDTH EXCEEDING 30 CM, SHUTTLE TYPE.
844629 | WEAVING MACHINES (LOOMS) FOR WEAVING FABRICS OF A WIDTH EXCEEDING 30 CM, SHUTTLE TYPE, NESOI.
844630 | WEAVING MACHINES (LOOMS) FOR WEAVING FABRICS OF A WIDTH EXCEEDING 30 CM, SHUTTLELESS TYPE.
844711 | CIRCULAR KNITTING MACHINES WITH CYLINDER DIAMETER NOT EXCEEDING 165 MM.
844712 | CIRCULAR KNITTING MACHINES WITH CYLINDER DIAMETER EXCEEDING 165 MM.
844720 | FLAT KNITTING MACHINES; STITCH-BONDING MACHINES.
844790 | KNITTING MACHINES, NESOI, AND MACHINES FOR MAKING GIMPED YARN, TULLE, LACE, EMBROIDERY, TRIMMINGS, BRAID OR NET AND MACHINES FOR TUFTING.
844811 | AUXILIARY MACHINERY FOR TEXTILE MACHINES (HEADINGS 8444 TO 8447), DOBBIES AND JACQUARDS, CARD REDUCING, COPYING, PUNCHING OR ASSEMBLING MACHINES.
844819 | AUXILIARY MACHINERY FOR TEXTILE MACHINES (HEADINGS 8444 TO 8447), NESOI.
844820 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR MACHINES FOR EXTRUDING, DRAWING, TEXTURING OR CUTTING MANMADE TEXTILE MATERIALS, OR OF THEIR AUXILIARY MACHINERY.
844831 | CARD CLOTHING.
844832 | PARTS OF MACHINES FOR PREPARING TEXTILE FIBERS, OTHER THAN CARD CLOTHING.
844833 | SPINDLES, SPINDLE FLYERS, SPINNING RINGS AND RING TRAVELLERS, FOR MACHINERY USED FOR PREPARING OR PRODUCING TEXTILE YARNS, ETC.
844839 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR TEXTILE SPINNING, DOUBLING OR TWISTING, WINDING OR REELING AND YARN PRODUCING MACHINES, ETC., NESOI.
844842 | REEDS FOR LOOMS, HEALDS AND HEALD-FRAMES.
844849 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES OF WEAVING MACHINES (LOOMS) OR OF THEIR AUXILIARY MACHINERY, NESOI.
844851 | SINKERS, NEEDLES AND OTHER ARTICLES USED IN FORMING STITCHES FOR KNITTING MACHINES, STITCH-BONDING AND GIMPED YARN ETC. MACHINES.
844859 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES NESOI FOR MACHINES FOR KNITTING, STITCH-BONDING, MAKING GIMPED YARN, TULLE, LACE, EMBROIDERY, TRIMMING, BRAID, NET OR TUFTING.
844900 | MACHINERY FOR THE MANUFACTURE OR FINISHING OF FELT OR NONWOVENS IN THE PIECE OR IN SHAPES, OR FOR MAKING OR BLOCKING FELT HATS; PARTS THEREOF.
845011 | HOUSEHOLD- OR LAUNDRY-TYPE WASHING MACHINES, FULLY AUTOMATIC, WITH A DRY LINEN CAPACITY NOT EXCEEDING 10 KG.
845012 | HOUSEHOLD- OR LAUNDRY-TYPE WASHING MACHINES, NOT FULLY AUTOMATIC, WITH A BUILT-IN CENTRIFUGAL DRYER, WITH A DRY LINEN CAPACITY NOT EXCEEDING 10 KG.
845019 | HOUSEHOLD- OR LAUNDRY-TYPE WASHING MACHINES, WITH A DRY LINEN CAPACITY NOT EXCEEDING 10 KG, NESOI.
845020 | HOUSEHOLD- OR LAUNDRY-TYPE WASHING MACHINES, WITH A DRY LINEN CAPACITY EXCEEDING 10 KG.
845090 | PARTS OF HOUSEHOLD- OR LAUNDRY-TYPE WASHING MACHINES, INCLUDING PARTS OF MACHINES WHICH BOTH WASH AND DRY.
845110 | DRY-CLEANING MACHINES FOR TEXTILES YARNS, FABRICS OR MADE UP TEXTILE ARTICLES.
845121 | DRYING MACHINES (EXCEPT CENTRIFUGAL TYPE) FOR TEXTILE YARNS, FABRICS OR MADE UP TEXTILE ARTICLES, WITH A DRY LINEN CAPACITY NOT EXCEEDING 10 KG.
845129 | DRYING MACHINES (EXCEPT CENTRIFUGAL TYPE) FOR TEXTILE YARNS, FABRICS OR MADE UP TEXTILE ARTICLES, WITH A DRY LINEN CAPACITY EXCEEDING 10 KG.
845130 | IRONING MACHINES AND PRESSES (INCLUDING FUSING PRESSES) FOR TEXTILE YARNS, FABRICS OR MADE UP TEXTILE ARTICLES.
845140 | WASHING, BLEACHING OR DYEING MACHINES FOR TEXTILES YARNS, FABRICS OR MADE UP TEXTILES ARTICLES.
845150 | MACHINES FOR REELING, UNREELING, FOLDING, CUTTING OR PINKING TEXTILE FABRICS.
845180 | MACHINERY FOR FINISHING, COATING OR IMPREGNATING TEXTILES YARNS, FABRICS OR MADE UP TEXTILE ARTICLES; MACHINES FOR APPLYING PASTE TO BASE FABRICS ETC.
845190 | PARTS FOR MACHINERY FOR WASHING, CLEANING, WRINGING ETC. TEXTILE YARNS AND FABRICS, APPLYING PASTE TO BASE FABRIC ETC. AND REELING ETC. TEXTILE FABRIC.
845210 | SEWING MACHINES OF THE HOUSEHOLD TYPE.
845221 | SEWING MACHINES OTHER THAN OF THE HOUSEHOLD TYPE, AUTOMATIC UNITS.
845229 | SEWING MACHINES OTHER THAN OF THE HOUSEHOLD OR AUTOMATIC TYPES.
845230 | SEWING MACHINE NEEDLES.
845290 | PARTS FOR SEWING MACHINES, NESOI.
845310 | MACHINES FOR PREPARING, TANNING OR WORKING HIDES, SKINS OR LEATHER.
845320 | MACHINERY FOR MAKING OR REPAIRING FOOTWEAR.
845380 | MACHINERY (OTHER THAN SEWING MACHINES), FOR MAKING OR REPAIRING ARTICLES OF HIDES, SKINS OR LEATHER, EXCEPT FOOTWEAR.
845390 | PARTS OF MACHINERY (EXCEPT SEWING MACHINES) FOR TANNING ETC. HIDES, SKINS OR LEATHER OR FOR MAKING OR REPAIRING ARTICLES OF HIDES, SKINS OR LEATHER.
845410 | CONVERTERS USED IN METALLURGY OR METAL FOUNDRIES.
845420 | INGOT MOLDS AND LADLES USED IN METALLURGY OR METAL FOUNDRIES.
845430 | CASTING MACHINES USED IN METALLURGY OR METAL FOUNDRIES.
845490 | PARTS FOR CONVERTERS, LADLES, INGOT MOLDS AND CASTING MACHINES USED IN METALLURGY OR METAL FOUNDRIES.
845510 | METAL-ROLLING TUBE MILLS.
845521 | METAL-ROLLING HOT OR COMBINATION HOT AND COLD ROLLING MILLS, EXCEPT TUBE MILLS.
845522 | COLD METAL-ROLLING MILLS, EXCEPT TUBE MILLS.
845530 | ROLLS FOR METAL-ROLLING MILLS.
845590 | PARTS FOR METAL-ROLLING MILLS, EXCEPT ROLLS FOR ROLLING MILLS.
845611 | MACHINE TOOLS FOR WORKING ANY MATERIAL BY REMOVAL OF MATERIAL OPERATED BY LASER.
845612 | MACHINE TOOLS FOR WORKING ANY MATERIAL BY REMOVAL OF MATERIAL OPERATED BY OTHER LIGHT OR PHOTON BEAM PROCESSES.
845620 | MACHINE TOOLS FOR WORKING ANY MATERIAL BY REMOVAL OF MATERIAL, BY ULTRASONIC PROCESSES.
845630 | MACHINE TOOLS FOR WORKING ANY MATERIAL BY REMOVAL OF MATERIAL, BY ELECTRO-DISCHARGE PROCESSES.
845640 | MACHINE TOOLS FOR WORKING ANY MATERIAL BY REMOVAL OF MATERIAL OPERATED BY PLASMA ARC PROCESSES.
845650 | MACHINE TOOLS FOR WORKING ANY MATERIAL BY REMOVAL OF MATERIAL, WATER-JET CUTTING MACHINES.
845690 | MACHINE TOOLS FOR REMOVAL OF MATERIAL BY ELECTRO-CHEMICAL, ELECTRON-BEAM, IONIC-BEAM OR PLASMA ARC PROCESSES, N.E.S.O.I.
845710 | MACHINING CENTERS FOR WORKING METAL.
845720 | UNIT CONSTRUCTION MACHINES (SINGLE STATION) FOR WORKING METAL.
845730 | MULTISTATION TRANSFER MACHINES FOR WORKING METAL.
845811 | HORIZONTAL LATHES FOR REMOVING METAL, NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
845819 | HORIZONTAL LATHES FOR REMOVING METAL, NOT NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
845891 | LATHES, EXCLUDING HORIZONTAL, FOR REMOVING METAL, NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
845899 | LATHES, EXCLUDING HORIZONTAL, FOR REMOVING METAL, NOT NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
845910 | WAY-TYPE UNIT HEAD MACHINES FOR REMOVING METAL.
845921 | DRILLING MACHINES FOR REMOVING METAL NESOI, NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
845929 | DRILLING MACHINES FOR REMOVING METAL NESOI, NOT NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
845931 | BORING-MILLING MACHINES FOR REMOVING METAL NESOI, NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
845939 | BORING-MILLING MACHINES FOR REMOVING METAL NESOI, NOT NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
845941 | NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED BORING MACHINES, NESOI.
845949 | OTHER BORING MACHINES, NESOI.
845951 | MILLING MACHINES, KNEE TYPE, FOR REMOVING METAL, NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
845959 | MILLING MACHINES, KNEE TYPE, FOR REMOVING METAL, NOT NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
845961 | MILLING MACHINES, NOT KNEE TYPE, FOR REMOVING METAL, NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
845969 | MILLING MACHINES, NOT KNEE TYPE, FOR REMOVING METAL, NOT NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
845970 | THREADING OR TAPPING MACHINES, FOR REMOVING METAL.
846012 | FLAT-SURFACE GRINDING MACHINES, NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
846019 | FLAT-SURFACE GRINDING MACHINES FOR REMOVING METAL, AXIS ACCURACY OF 0.01 MM OR MORE, NOT NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
846022 | CENTERLESS GRINDING MACHINES, NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
846023 | OTHER CYLINDRICAL GRINDING MACHINES, NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
846024 | OTHER GRINDING MACHINES, NESOI, NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
846029 | GRINDING MACHINES FOR REMOVING METAL, EXCEPT FLAT-SURFACE, AXIS ACCURACY OF 0.01 MM OR MORE, NOT NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
846031 | SHARPENING (TOOL OR CUTTER GRINDING) MACHINES FOR REMOVING METAL, NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
846039 | SHARPENING (TOOL OR CUTTER GRINDING) MACHINES FOR REMOVING METAL, NOT NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
846040 | HONING OR LAPPING MACHINES FOR REMOVING METAL.
846090 | MACHINE TOOLS FOR DEBURRING, POLISHING METAL, SINTERED METAL CARBIDES, ABRASIVES OR POLISHING PRODUCTS, OTHER THAN GEAR CUTTING, ETC., NESOI.
846120 | SHAPING OR SLOTTING MACHINES FOR REMOVING METAL.
846130 | BROACHING MACHINES FOR REMOVING METAL.
846140 | GEAR CUTTING, GEAR GRINDING OR GEAR FINISHING MACHINES.
846150 | SAWING OR CUTTING-OFF MACHINES FOR REMOVING METAL.
846190 | MACHINE TOOLS WORKING BY REMOVING METAL, SINTERED METAL CARBIDES OR CERMETS, NESOI.
846211 | FORGING OR DIE-STAMPING MACHINES (INCLUDING PRESSES) AND HAMMERS FOR WORKING METAL.
846219 | FORGING OR DIE-STAMPING MACHINES (INCLUDING PRESSES) AND HAMMERS FOR WORKING METAL.
846222 | BENDING, FOLDING, STRAIGHTENING OR FLATTENING MACHINES (INCLUDING PRESSES) FOR WORKING METAL, NOT NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
846223 | BENDING, FOLDING, STRAIGHTENING OR FLATTENING MACHINES (INCLUDING PRESSES) FOR WORKING METAL, NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
846224 | BENDING, FOLDING, STRAIGHTENING OR FLATTENING MACHINES (INCLUDING PRESSES) FOR WORKING METAL, NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
846225 | BENDING, FOLDING, STRAIGHTENING OR FLATTENING MACHINES (INCLUDING PRESSES) FOR WORKING METAL, NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
846226 | BENDING, FOLDING, STRAIGHTENING OR FLATTENING MACHINES (INCLUDING PRESSES) FOR WORKING METAL, NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
846229 | BENDING, FOLDING, STRAIGHTENING OR FLATTENING MACHINES (INCLUDING PRESSES) FOR WORKING METAL, NOT NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
846232 | SHEARING MACHINES (INCLUDING PRESSES) FOR WORKING METAL, OTHER THAN COMBINED PUNCHING AND SHEARING MACHINES, NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
846233 | SHEARING MACHINES (INCLUDING PRESSES) FOR WORKING METAL, OTHER THAN COMBINED PUNCHING AND SHEARING MACHINES, NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
846239 | SHEARING MACHINES (INCLUDING PRESSES) FOR WORKING METAL, OTHER THAN COMBINED PUNCHING AND SHEARING MACHINES, NOT NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
846242 | PUNCHING OR NOTCHING MACHINES (INCLUDING PRESSES) FOR WORKING METAL, INCLUDING COMBINED PUNCHING AND SHEARING MACHINES, NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
846249 | PUNCHING OR NOTCHING MACHINES (INCLUDING PRESSES) FOR WORKING METAL, INCLUDING COMBINED PUNCHING AND SHEARING MACHINES, NOT NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
846251 | PUNCHING OR NOTCHING MACHINES (INCLUDING PRESSES) FOR WORKING METAL, INCLUDING COMBINED PUNCHING AND SHEARING MACHINES, NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
846259 | PUNCHING OR NOTCHING MACHINES (INCLUDING PRESSES) FOR WORKING METAL, INCLUDING COMBINED PUNCHING AND SHEARING MACHINES, NOT NUMERICALLY CONTROLLED.
846261 | HYDRAULIC PRESSES FOR WORKING METAL.
846262 | MACHINE TOOLS (INCLUDING PRESSES) FOR WORKING METAL BY FORGING, HAMMERING, DIE-CASTING, BENDING, FOLDING, FLATTENING, WORKING METAL CARBIDES, NESOI.
846263 | MACHINE TOOLS (INCLUDING PRESSES) FOR WORKING METAL BY FORGING, HAMMERING, DIE-CASTING, BENDING, FOLDING, FLATTENING, WORKING METAL CARBIDES, NESOI.
846269 | MACHINE TOOLS (INCLUDING PRESSES) FOR WORKING METAL BY FORGING, HAMMERING, DIE-CASTING, BENDING, FOLDING, FLATTENING, WORKING METAL CARBIDES, NESOI.
846290 | MACHINE TOOLS (INCLUDING PRESSES) FOR WORKING METAL BY FORGING, HAMMERING, DIE-CASTING, BENDING, FOLDING, FLATTENING, WORKING METAL CARBIDES, NESOI.
846310 | DRAW-BENCHES FOR BARS, TUBES, PROFILES, WIRE OR THE LIKE FOR WORKING METAL WITHOUT REMOVING MATERIAL.
846320 | THREAD ROLLING MACHINES FOR WORKING METAL WITHOUT REMOVING MATERIAL.
846330 | MACHINES FOR WORKING WIRE WITHOUT REMOVING MATERIAL.
846390 | MACHINE TOOLS FOR WORKING METAL, SINTERED METAL CARBIDES OR CERMETS, WITHOUT REMOVING MATERIAL, NESOI.
846410 | SAWING MACHINES FOR WORKING STONE, CERAMICS, CONCRETE, ASBESTOS-CEMENT OR LIKE MINERAL MATERIALS OR FOR COLD WORKING GLASS.
846420 | GRINDING OR POLISHING MACHINES FOR WORKING STONE, CERAMICS, CONCRETE, ASBESTOS-CEMENT OR LIKE MINERAL MATERIALS OR FOR COLD WORKING GLASS.
846490 | MACHINE TOOLS FOR WORKING STONE, CERAMICS, CONCRETE, ASBESTOS-CEMENT OR LIKE MINERAL MATERIALS OR FOR COLD WORKING GLASS, NESOI.
846510 | MACHINES FOR WORKING WOOD, HARD RUBBER, ETC., WHICH CARRY OUT DIFFERENT MACHINE OPERATIONS WITHOUT TOOL CHANGES BETWEEN OPERATIONS.
846520 | MACHINING CENTERS FOR WORKING CORK, BONE, HARD RUBBER, HARD PLASTICS OR SIMILIAR HARD MATERALS.
846591 | SAWING MACHINES FOR WORKING WOOD, CORK, BONE, HARD RUBBER, HARD PLASTICS OR SIMILAR HARD MATERIALS.
846592 | PLANING, MILLING OR MOLDING (BY CUTTING) MACHINES FOR WORKING WOOD, CORK, BONE, HARD RUBBER, HARD PLASTICS OR SIMILAR HARD MATERIALS.
846593 | GRINDING, SANDING OR POLISHING MACHINES FOR WORKING WOOD, CORK, BONE, HARD RUBBER, HARD PLASTICS OR SIMILAR HARD MATERIALS.
846594 | BENDING OR ASSEMBLING MACHINES FOR WORKING WOOD, CORK, BONE, HARD RUBBER, HARD PLASTICS OR SIMILAR HARD MATERIALS.
846595 | DRILLING OR MORTISING MACHINES FOR WORKING WOOD, CORK, BONE, HARD RUBBER, HARD PLASTICS OR SIMILAR HARD MATERIALS.
846596 | SPLITTING, SLICING OR PARING MACHINES FOR WORKING WOOD, CORK, BONE, HARD RUBBER, HARD PLASTICS OR SIMILAR HARD MATERIALS.
846599 | MACHINE TOOLS (ALSO THOSE FOR NAILING, STAPLING, GLUEING, ETC.) FOR WORKING WOOD, CORK, BONE, HARD RUBBER, HARD PLASTICS OR SIMILAR MATERIALS, NESOI.
846610 | TOOL HOLDERS AND SELF-OPENING DIEHEADS FOR MACHINES OR ANY TYPE OF TOOL FOR WORKING IN THE HAND.
846620 | WORK HOLDERS FOR MACHINE TOOLS.
846630 | DIVIDING HEADS AND OTHER SPECIAL ATTACHMENTS FOR MACHINE TOOLS.
846691 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR MACHINE TOOLS FOR WORKING STONE, CERAMICS, CONCRETE, ASBESTOS-CEMENT OR LIKE MATERIALS OR FOR COLD WORKING GLASS, NESOI.
846692 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR MACHINE TOOLS FOR WORKING WOOD, CORK, BONE, HARD RUBBER, HARD PLASTICS OR SIMILAR HARD MATERIALS, NESOI.
846693 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR MACHINE TOOLS, FOR LASER OPERATION, METALWORKING MACHINING CENTERS, LATHES AND DRILLING MACHINES, ETC., NESOI.
846694 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR MACHINES TOOLS, FOR FORGING, DIE-STAMPING, SHEARING, ETC. METAL AND THOSE FOR WORKING METAL WITHOUT REMOVING MATERIAL, NESOI.
846711 | PNEUMATIC TOOLS FOR WORKING IN THE HAND, ROTARY TYPE (INCLUDING COMBINED ROTARY-PERCUSSION).
846719 | PNEUMATIC TOOLS FOR WORKING IN THE HAND, EXCEPT ROTARY TYPE
846721 | DRILLS WITH SELF-CONTAINED ELECTRIC MOTORS, FOR WORKING IN THE HAND.
846722 | SAWS WITH SELF-CONTAINED ELECTRIC MOTORS, FOR WORKING IN THE HAND.
846729 | TOOLS FOR WORKING IN THE HAND, WITH SELF-CONTAINED ELECTRIC MOTORS, NESOI.
846781 | CHAIN SAWS, SELF-CONTAINED NONELECTRIC MOTOR, HAND-DIRECTED.
846789 | TOOLS FOR WORKING IN THE HAND, WITH SELF-CONTAINED NONELECTRIC MOTOR, NESOI.
846791 | PARTS OF CHAIN SAWS.
846792 | PARTS OF PNEUMATIC TOOLS FOR WORKING IN THE HAND.
846799 | PARTS OF TOOLS WITH SELF-CONTAINED NONELECTRIC MOTOR, FOR WORKING IN THE HAND, NESOI.
846810 | HAND-HELD BLOW TORCHES.
846820 | GAS OPERATED MACHINERY AND APPARATUS FOR SOLDERING, BRAZING OR WELDING, OTHER THAN HAND-HELD BLOW TORCHES.
846880 | MACHINERY AND APPARATUS FOR SOLDERING, BRAZING OR WELDING, NESOI.
846890 | PARTS OF MACHINERY AND APPARATUS FOR SOLDERING, BRAZING OR WELDING, NESOI.
847010 | ELECTRONIC CALCULATORS CAPABLE OF OPERATION WITHOUT AN EXTERNAL SOURCE OF POWER.
847021 | ELECTRONIC CALCULATING MACHINES, NESOI, INCORPORATING A PRINTING DEVICE.
847029 | ELECTRONIC CALCULATING MACHINES, NESOI, NOT INCORPORATING A PRINTING DEVICE.
847030 | CALCULATING MACHINES, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC.
847050 | CASH REGISTERS.
847090 | POSTAGE-FRANKING MACHINES, TICKET-ISSUING MACHINES AND SIMILAR MACHINES, INCORPORATING A CALCULATING DEVICE, NESOI.
847130 | PORTABLE DIGTL AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING MACHINES, WEIGHT NOT MORE THAN 10 KG, CONSISTING OF AT LEAST A CENTRAL PROCESSING UNIT, KEYBOARD & A DISPLAY.
847141 | DIGITAL ADP MACHINES COMPRISING IN SAME HOUSING AT LEAST A CENTRAL PROCESSING UNIT AND AN INPUT AND OUTPUT UNIT, WHETHER OR NOT COMBINED, N.E.S.O.I.
847149 | DIGITAL AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING MACHINES AND UNITS THEREOF PRESENTED IN THE FORM OF SYSTEMS, N.E.S.O.I.
847150 | DIGITAL PROCESSING UNITS OTHER THAN THOSE OF 8471.41 AND 8471.49, N.E.S.O.I.
847160 | AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INPUT OR OUTPUT UNITS, WHETHER OR NOT CONTAINING STORAGE UNITS IN THE SAME HOUSING, N.E.S.O.I.
847170 | AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING STORAGE UNITS, N.E.S.O.I.
847180 | AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING UNITS, N.E.S.O.I.
847190 | AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING UNTS THEREOF; MAGNETIC/OPTICAL READERS, MACH FOR TRANSCRIBING DATA TO DATA MEDIA IN CODED FORM & MACH FOR PROC DATA, NESOI.
847210 | DUPLICATING MACHINES.
847230 | MACHINES FOR SORTING OR FOLDING MAIL, FOR INSERTING MAIL IN ENVELOPES, OR FOR OPENING OR SEALING MAIL AND MACHINES FOR AFFIXING OR CANCELLING POSTAGE.
847290 | OFFICE MACHINES NESOI (INCLUDING AUTOMATIC BANKNOTE DISPENSERS, COIN-SORTING MACHINES, PENCIL-SHARPENING MACHINES, PERFORATING OR STAPLING MACHINES).
847321 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR ELECTRONIC CALCULATORS AND CALCULATING MACHINES.
847329 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR CASH REGISTERS AND MACHINES FOR ACCOUNTING, POSTAGE-FRANKING, TICKET-ISSUING AND SIMILAR MACHINES WITH A CALCULATING DEVICE.
847330 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING MACHINES AND UNITS THEREOF, MAGNETIC OR OPTICAL READERS, TRANSCRIBING MACHINES, ETC., NESOI.
847340 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR OFFICE MACHINES, NESOI (FOR EXAMPLE, DUPLICATING MACHINES, ADDRESSING MACHINES, STAPLING MACHINES, ETC.).
847350 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES EQUALLY SUITABLE FOR USE WITH MACHINES OF TWO OR MORE OF THE HEADINGS 8469 TO 8472.
847410 | MACHINES FOR SORTING, SCREENING, SEPARATING OR WASHING EARTH, STONE, ORE OR OTHER MINERAL SUBSTANCES, IN SOLID FORM.
847420 | MACHINES FOR CRUSHING OR GRINDING EARTH, STONE, ORE OR OTHER MINERAL SUBSTANCES, IN SOLID FORM.
847431 | CONCRETE OR MORTAR MIXERS.
847432 | MACHINES FOR MIXING MINERAL SUBSTANCES WITH BITUMEN.
847439 | MACHINES FOR MIXING OR KNEADING EARTH, STONE, ORE OR OTHER MINERAL SUBSTANCES IN SOLID FORM, NESOI.
847480 | MACHINERY FOR AGGLOMERATING ETC. SOLID MINERAL FUELS, CERAMIC PASTE OR OTHER MINERAL PRODUCTS; MACHINES FOR FORMING FOUNDRY MOLDS OF SAND.
847490 | PARTS OF MACHINERY FOR SORTING, SCREENING, SEPARATING AND KNEADING OR PROCESSING, ETC. EARTH, STONE, ORES OR OTHER MINERAL SUBSTANCES IN SOLID FORM.
847510 | MACHINES FOR ASSEMBLING ELECTRIC OR ELECTRONIC LAMPS, TUBES OR FLASHBULBS, IN GLASS ENVELOPES.
847521 | MACHINES FOR MAKING OPTICAL FIBERS AND PREFORMS THEREOF.
847529 | MACHINES FOR MANUFACTURING OR HOT WORKING GLASS OR GLASSWARE, NESOI.
847590 | PARTS OF MACHINES FOR ASSEMBLING ELECTRIC OR ELECTRONIC LAMPS, TUBES ETC., IN GLASS ENVELOPES AND FOR MANUFACTURING OR HOT WORKING GLASS OR GLASSWARE.
847621 | AUTOMATIC BEVERAGE VENDING MACHINES INCORPORATING HEATING OR REFRIGERATING DEVICES.
847629 | AUTOMATIC BEVERAGE VENDING MACHINES NOT INCORPORATING HEATING OR REFRIGERATING DEVICES.
847681 | AUTOMATIC GOOGS-VENDING MACHINES INCORPORATING HEATING OR REFRIGERATING DEVICES, NESOI.
847689 | AUTOMATIC GOODS-VENDING MACHINES NOT INCORPORATINNG HEATING OR REFRIGERATING DEVICES, NESOI.
847690 | PARTS OF AUTOMATIC VENDING MACHINES.
847710 | INJECTION-MOLDING MACHINES FOR WORKING RUBBER OR PLASTICS.
847720 | EXTRUDERS FOR WORKING RUBBER OR PLASTICS.
847730 | BLOW-MOLDING MACHINES FOR WORKING RUBBER OR PLASTIC.
847740 | VACUUM-MOLDING MACHINES AND OTHER THERMOFORMING MACHINES, FOR MOLDING OR FORMING RUBBER OR PLASTICS.
847751 | MACHINERY FOR MOLDING OR RETREADING PNEUMATIC TIRES OR FOR MOLDING OR OTHERWISE FORMING INNER TUBES.
847759 | MACHINERY FOR MOLDING OR OTHERWISE FORMING RUBBER OR PLASTICS, NESOI.
847780 | MACHINERY FOR WORKING RUBBER OR PLASTICS OR FOR THE MANUFACTURE OF PRODUCTS FROM THESE MATERIALS, NESOI.
847790 | PARTS OF MACHINERY FOR WORKING RUBBER OR PLASTICS OR PARTS OF MACHINERY USED IN THE MANUFACTURE OF PRODUCTS FROM RUBBER OR PLASTICS MATERIALS, NESOI.
847810 | MACHINERY FOR PREPARING OR MAKING UP TOBACCO, NESOI.
847890 | PARTS OF MACHINERY, NESOI, FOR PREPARING OR MAKING UP TOBACCO.
847910 | MACHINERY FOR PUBLIC WORKS, BUILDING OR THE LIKE.
847920 | MACHINERY FOR THE EXTRACTION OR PREPARATION OF ANIMAL OR FIXED VEGETABLE FATS OR OILS.
847930 | PRESSES FOR MANUFACTURING PARTICLE BOARD OR FIBER BUILDING BOARD OF WOOD OR OTHER LIGNEOUS MATERIALS AND OTHER MACHINERY FOR TREATING WOOD OR CORK.
847940 | ROPE OR CABLE-MAKING MACHINES.
847950 | INDUSTRIAL ROBOTS FOR MULTIPLE USES.
847960 | EVAPORATIVE AIR COOLERS.
847971 | PASSENGER BOARDING BRIDGES OF A KIND USED IN AIRPORTS.
847979 | PASSENGER BOARDING BRIDGES, OTHER THAN THOSE OF A KIND USED IN AIRPORTS.
847981 | MACHINES AND MECHANICAL APPLIANCES FOR TREATING METAL, INCLUDING ELECTRIC WIRE COIL-WINDERS.
847982 | MACHINES AND MECHANICAL APPLIANCES FOR MIXING, KNEADING, CRUSHING, GRINDING, SCREENING, SIFTING, HOMOGENIZING, EMULSIFYING OR STIRRING, NESOI.
847983 | MACHINES AND MECHANICAL APPLIANCES HAVING INDIVIDUAL FUNCTIONS, NESOI.
847989 | MACHINES AND MECHANICAL APPLIANCES HAVING INDIVIDUAL FUNCTIONS, NESOI.
847990 | PARTS OF MACHINES AND MECHANICAL APPLIANCES HAVING INDIVIDUAL FUNCTIONS, NESOI.
848010 | MOLDING BOXES FOR METAL FOUNDRY.
848020 | MOLD BASES.
848030 | MOLDING PATTERNS.
848041 | MOLDS FOR METAL OR METAL CARBIDES, INJECTION OR COMPRESSION TYPES.
848049 | MOLDS FOR METAL OR METAL CARBIDES, OTHER THAN INJECTION OR COMPRESSION TYPES.
848050 | MOLDS FOR GLASS.
848060 | MOLDS FOR MINERAL MATERIALS.
848071 | MOLDS FOR RUBBER OR PLASTICS, INJECTION OR COMPRESSION TYPES.
848079 | MOLDS FOR RUBBER OR PLASTICS, OTHER THAN INJECTION OR COMPRESSION TYPES.
848110 | PRESSURE-REDUCING VALVES.
848120 | VALVES FOR OLEOHYDRAULIC OR PNEUMATIC TRANSMISSIONS.
848130 | CHECK VALVES.
848140 | SAFETY OR RELIEF VALVES.
848180 | TAPS, COCKS, VALVES AND SIMILAR APPLIANCES FOR PIPES, VATS OR THE LIKE, INCLUDING THERMOSTATICALLY CONTROLLED VALVES, NESOI.
848190 | PARTS FOR TAPS, COCKS, VALVES AND SIMILAR APPLIANCES FOR PIPES, VATS OR THE LIKE, INCLUDING PRESSURE REDUCING AND THERMOSTATICALLY CONTROLLED VALVES.
848210 | BALL BEARINGS.
848220 | TAPERED ROLLER BEARINGS, INCLUDING CONE AND TAPERED ROLLER ASSEMBLIES.
848230 | SPHERICAL ROLLER BEARINGS.
848240 | NEEDLE ROLLER BEARINGS.
848250 | CYLINDRICAL ROLLER BEARINGS NESOI.
848280 | BALL OR ROLLER BEARINGS NESOI, INCLUDING COMBINED BALL/ROLLER BEARINGS.
848291 | BALLS, NEEDLES AND ROLLERS FOR BALL OR ROLLER BEARINGS.
848299 | PARTS OF BALL OR ROLLER BEARINGS, NESOI.
848310 | TRANSMISSION SHAFTS (INCLUDING CAMSHAFTS AND CRANKSHAFTS) AND CRANKS.
848320 | HOUSED BEARINGS, INCORPORATING BALL OR ROLLER BEARINGS.
848330 | BEARING HOUSINGS; PLAIN SHAFT BEARINGS.
848340 | GEARS AND GEARING (EXCEPT TOOTHED WHEELS, CHAIN SPROCKETS, ETC.); BALL OR ROLLER SCREWS; GEAR BOXES AND OTHER SPEED CHANGERS, INCL TORQUE CONVERTERS.
848350 | FLYWHEELS AND PULLEYS, INCLUDING PULLEY BLOCKS.
848360 | CLUTCHES AND SHAFT COUPLINGS (INCLUDING UNIVERSAL JOINTS).
848390 | TOOTHED WHEELS, CHAIN SPROCKETS AND OTHER TRANSMISSION ELEMENTS PRESENTED SEPARATELY; PARTS.
848410 | GASKETS AND SIMILAR JOINTS OF METAL SHEETING COMBINED WITH OTHER MATERIAL OR OF TWO OR MORE LAYERS OF METAL.
848420 | MECHANICAL SEALS.
848490 | SETS OR ASSORTMENTS OF GASKETS AND SIMILAR JOINTS, DISSIMILAR IN COMPOSITION, PUT UP IN POUCHES, ENVELOPES OR SIMILAR PACKINGS.
848510 | SHIPS' OR BOATS' PROPELLERS AND BLADES THEREFOR.
848520 | MACHINERY FOR WORKING RUBBER OR PLASTICS OR FOR THE MANUFACTURE OF PRODUCTS FROM THESE MATERIALS, NESOI.
848530 | MACHINES AND MECHANICAL APPLIANCES HAVING INDIVIDUAL FUNCTIONS, NESOI.
848580 | MACHINES AND MECHANICAL APPLIANCES HAVING INDIVIDUAL FUNCTIONS, NESOI.
848590 | MACHINERY PARTS, NOT CONTAINING ELECTRICAL CONNECTORS, INSULATORS, COILS, CONTACTS OR OTHER ELECTRICAL FEATURES, NESOI.
848610 | MACHINES AND APPARATUS FOR THE MANUFACTURE OF BOULES OR WAFERS.
848620 | MACHINES AND APPARATUS FOR THE MANUFACTURE OF SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES OR OF ELECTRONIC INTEGRATES CIRCUITS.
848630 | MACHINES AND APPARATUS FOR THE MANUFACTURE OF FLAT PANEL DISPLAYS.
848640 | MACHINES AND APPARATUS SPECIFIED IN NOTE 9(C) TO CHAPTER 84.
848690 | MACHINES AND APPARATUS OF A KIND USED FOR THE MANUFACTURE OF SEMICONDUCTOR BOULES OR WAFERS, ETC, PARTS AND ACCESSORITES.
848710 | SHIPS' OR BOATS' PROPELLERS AND BLADES THEREOF.
848790 | MACHINERY PARTS, NON ELECTRIC, NESOI.
850110 | ELECTRIC MOTORS OF AN OUTPUT NOT EXCEEDING 37.5 W.
850120 | UNIVERSAL AC/DC MOTORS OF AN OUTPUT EXCEEDING 37.5 W.
850131 | DC MOTORS NESOI AND GENERATORS OF AN OUTPUT NOT EXCEEDING 750 W.
850132 | DC MOTORS NESOI AND GENERATORS OF AN OUTPUT EXCEEDING 750 W BUT NOT EXCEEDING 75 KW.
850133 | DC MOTORS NESOI AND GENERATORS OF AN OUTPUT EXCEEDING 75 KW BUT NOT EXCEEDING 375 KW.
850134 | DC MOTORS NESOI AND GENERATORS OF AN OUTPUT EXCEEDING 375 KW.
850140 | AC MOTORS NESOI, SINGLE-PHASE.
850151 | AC MOTORS NESOI, MULTI-PHASE, OF AN OUTPUT NOT EXCEEDING 750 W.
850152 | AC MOTORS NESOI, MULTI-PHASE, OF AN OUTPUT EXCEEDING 750 W BUT NOT EXCEEDING 75 KW.
850153 | AC MOTORS NESOI, MULTI-PHASE, OF AN OUTPUT EXCEEDING 75 KW.
850161 | AC GENERATORS (ALTERNATORS), OF AN OUTPUT NOT EXCEEDING 75 KVA.
850162 | AC GENERATORS (ALTERNATORS), OF AN OUTPUT EXCEEDING 75 KVA BUT NOT EXCEEDING 375 KVA.
850163 | AC GENERATORS (ALTERNATORS), OF AN OUTPUT EXCEEDING 375 KVA BUT NOT EXCEEDING 750 KVA.
850164 | AC GENERATORS (ALTERNATORS), OF AN OUTPUT EXCEEDING 750 KVA.
850171 | DC MOTORS NESOI AND GENERATORS OF AN OUTPUT NOT EXCEEDING 750 W.
850172 | DC MOTORS NESOI AND GENERATORS OF AN OUTPUT NOT EXCEEDING 750 W.
850180 | AC GENERATORS (ALTERNATORS), OF AN OUTPUT NOT EXCEEDING 75 KVA.
850211 | GENERATING SETS WITH COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON (DIESEL OR SEMI-DIESEL) ENGINES, OF AN OUTPUT NOT EXCEEDING 75 KVA.
850212 | GENERATING SETS WITH COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON (DIESEL ETC.) ENGINES, OF AN OUTPUT EXCEEDING 75 KVA NOT EXCEEDING 375 KVA.
850213 | GENERATING SETS WITH COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON (DIESEL OR SEMI-DIESEL) ENGINES, OF AN OUTPUT EXCEEDING 375 KVA.
850220 | GENERATING SETS WITH SPARK-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINES.
850231 | GENERATING SETS, ELECTRIC, WIND-POWERED.
850239 | GENERATING SETS, ELECTRIC, NESOI.
850240 | ELECTRIC ROTARY CONVERTERS.
850300 | PARTS OF ELECTRIC MOTORS, GENERATORS, GENERATING SETS AND ROTARY CONVERTERS.
850410 | BALLASTS FOR DISCHARGE LAMPS OR TUBES.
850421 | LIQUID DIELECTRIC TRANSFORMERS HAVING A POWER HANDLING CAPACITY NOT EXCEEDING 650 KVA.
850422 | LIQUID DIELECTRIC TRANSFORMERS HAVING A POWER HANDLING CAPACITY EXCEEDING 650 KVA BUT NOT EXCEEDING 10,000 KVA.
850423 | LIQUID DIELECTRIC TRANSFORMERS HAVING A POWER HANDLING CAPACITY EXCEEDING 10,000 KVA.
850431 | ELECTRICAL TRANSFORMERS NESOI, HAVING A POWER HANDING CAPACITY NOT EXCEEDING 1 KVA.
850432 | ELECTRICAL TRANSFORMERS NESOI, HAVING A POWER HANDING CAPACITY EXCEEDING 1 KVA BUT NOT EXCEEDING 16 KVA.
850433 | ELECTRICAL TRANSFORMERS NESOI, HAVING A POWER HANDING CAPACITY EXCEEDING 16 KVA BUT NOT EXCEEDING 500 KVA.
850434 | ELECTRICAL TRANSFORMERS NESOI, HAVING A POWER HANDLING CAPACITY EXCEEDING 500 KVA.
850440 | ELECTRICAL STATIC CONVERTERS; POWER SUPPLIES FOR ADP MACHINES OR UNITS OF 8471.
850450 | ELECTRICAL INDUCTORS NESOI.
850490 | PARTS FOR ELECTRICAL TRANSFORMERS, STATIC CONVERTERS AND INDUCTORS.
850511 | PERMANENT MAGNETS AND ARTICLES INTENDED TO BECOME PERMANENT MAGNETS AFTER MAGNETIZATION, MADE OF METAL.
850519 | PERMANENT MAGNETS AND ARTICLES INTENDED TO BECOME PERMANENT MAGNETS AFTER MAGNETIZATION, MADE OF MATERIALS OTHER THAN METAL.
850520 | ELECTROMAGNETIC COUPLINGS, CLUTCHES AND BRAKES.
850590 | ELECTROMAGNETS; ELECTROMAGNETIC OR PERMANENT MAGNET CHUCKS, CLAMPS AND SIMILAR HOLDING DEVICES; AND PARTS OF ELECTROMAGNETIC ARTICLES, NESOI.
850610 | PRIMARY CELLS AND PRIMARY BATTERIES, MANGANESE DIOXIDE.
850630 | PRIMARY CELLS AND PRIMARY BATTERIES, MERCURIC OXIDE.
850640 | PRIMARY CELLS AND PRIMARY BATTERIES, SILVER OXIDE.
850650 | PRIMARY CELLS AND PRIMARY BATTERIES, LITHIUM.
850660 | PRIMARY CELLS AND PRIMARY BATTERIES, AIR-ZINC.
850680 | PRIMARY CELLS AND PRIMARY BATTERIES, N.E.S.O.I.
850690 | PARTS OF PRIMARY CELLS AND PRIMARY BATTERIES.
850710 | LEAD-ACID STORAGE BATTERIES OF A KIND USED FOR STARTING PISTON ENGINES.
850720 | LEAD-ACID STORAGE BATTERIES NESOI.
850730 | NICKEL-CADMIUM STORAGE BATTERIES.
850750 | NICKEL-METAL HYDRIDE BATTERIES.
850760 | LITHIUM ION BATTERIES.
850780 | STORAGE BATTERIES NESOI.
850790 | PARTS OF ELECTRIC STORAGE BATTERIES, INCLUDING SEPARATORS THEREFOR.
850811 | VACUUM CLEANERS WITH SELF-CONTAINED ELECTRIC MOTOR, OF A POWER LT=1500 W AND HAVING A DUST BAG OR OTHER RECEPTACLE CAPACITY LT=20 L.
850819 | VACUUM CLEANERS WITH SELF-CONTAINED ELECTRIC MOTOR, NESOI.
850860 | VACUUM CLEANERS WITHOUT SELF-CONTAINED ELECTRIC MOTOR.
850870 | PARTS OF VACUUM CLEANERS.
850940 | ELECTROMECHANICAL DOMESTIC FOOD GRINDERS, PROCESSORS AND MIXERS, AND FRUIT OR VEGETABLE JUICE EXTRACTORS, WITH SELF-CONTAINED ELECTRIC MOTOR.
850980 | ELECTROMECHANICAL DOMESTIC APPLIANCES, WITH SELF-CONTAINED ELECTRIC MOTOR, NESOI.
850990 | PARTS OF ELECTROMECHANICAL DOMESTIC APPLIANCES WITH SELF-CONTAINED ELECTRIC MOTOR.
851010 | ELECTRIC SHAVERS, WITH SELF-CONTAINED ELECTRIC MOTOR.
851020 | ELECTRIC HAIR CLIPPERS, WITH SELF-CONTAINED ELECTRIC MOTOR.
851030 | HAIR-REMOVING APPLIANCES, WITH SELF-CONTAINED ELECTRIC MOTOR.
851090 | PARTS OF ELECTRIC SHAVERS AND HAIR CLIPPERS WITH SELF-CONTAINED ELECTRIC MOTOR.
851110 | INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE SPARK PLUGS.
851120 | INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE IGNITION MAGNETOS, MAGNETO-DYNAMOS AND MAGNETIC FLYWHEELS.
851130 | INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE DISTRIBUTORS AND IGNITION COILS.
851140 | INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE STARTER MOTORS AND DUAL PURPOSE STARTER-GENERATORS.
851150 | INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE GENERATORS, NESOI.
851180 | ELECTRICAL IGNITION OR STARTING EQUIPMENT USED FOR INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES, NESOI, AND EQUIPMENT USED IN CONJUNCTION WITH SUCH ENGINES, NESOI.
851190 | PARTS FOR ELECTRICAL IGNITION OR STARTING EQUIPMENT USED FOR INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES; PARTS FOR GENERATORS AND CUT-OUTS USED WITH SUCH EQUIPMENT.
851210 | ELECTRICAL LIGHTING OR VISUAL SIGNALING EQUIPMENT FOR USE ON BICYCLES.
851220 | ELECTRICAL LIGHTING OR VISUAL SIGNALING EQUIPMENT, FOR USE ON CYCLES OR MOTOR VEHICLES, EXCEPT FOR USE ON BICYCLES.
851230 | ELECTRICAL SOUND SIGNALING EQUIPMENT USED FOR CYCLES OR MOTOR VEHICLES.
851240 | ELECTRICAL WINDSHIELD WIPERS, DEFROSTERS AND DEMISTERS USED FOR CYCLES OR MOTOR VEHICLES.
851290 | PARTS OF ELECTRICAL LIGHTING OR SIGNALING EQUIPMENT, WINDSHIELD WIPERS, DEFROSTERS AND DEMISTERS, USED FOR CYCLES OR MOTOR VEHICLES.
851310 | PORTABLE ELECTRIC LAMPS, BATTERY OR MAGNETO POWERED, NESOI.
851390 | PARTS FOR PORTABLE ELECTRIC LAMPS, BATTERY OR MAGNETO POWERED, NESOI.
851411 | INDUSTRIAL OR LABORATORY ELECTRIC FURNACES AND OVENS, RESISTANCE TYPE.
851419 | INDUSTRIAL OR LABORATORY ELECTRIC FURNACES AND OVENS, RESISTANCE TYPE.
851420 | INDUSTRIAL OR LABORATORY ELECTRIC FURNACES AND OVENS, INDUCTION OR DIELECTRIC TYPE.
851431 | INDUSTRIAL OR LABORATORY ELECTRIC FURNACES AND OVENS, NESOI.
851432 | INDUSTRIAL OR LABORATORY ELECTRIC FURNACES AND OVENS, NESOI.
851439 | INDUSTRIAL OR LABORATORY ELECTRIC FURNACES AND OVENS, NESOI.
851440 | INDUSTRIAL OR LABORATORY INDUCTION OR DIELECTION HEATING EQUIPMENT, NESOI.
851490 | PARTS FOR INDUSTRIAL OR LABORATORY ELECTRIC FURNACES AND OVENS; PARTS FOR INDUSTRIAL OR LABORATORY INDUCTION OR DIELECTRIC HEATING EQUIPMENT, NESOI.
851511 | ELECTRIC SOLDERING IRONS AND GUNS.
851519 | ELECTRIC BRAZING OR SOLDERING MACHINES OR APPARTAUS, NESOI.
851521 | ELECTRIC MACHINES AND APPARATUS FOR RESISTANCE WELDING OF METAL, FULLY OR PARTY AUTOMATIC.
851529 | ELECTRIC MACHINES AND APPARATUS FOR RESISTANCE WELDING OF METAL, OTHER THAN FULLY OR PARTLY AUTOMATIC.
851531 | ELECTRIC MACHINES AND APPARATUS FOR ARC (INCLUDING PLAZMA ARC) WELDING OF METALS, FULLY OR PARTY AUTOMATIC.
851539 | ELECTRIC MACHINES AND APPARATUS FOR ARC (INCLUDING PLAZMA ARC) WELDING OF METALS, OTHER THAN FULLY OR PARTLY AUTOMATIC.
851580 | ELECTRIC, LASER, ULTRASONIC ETC. BRAZING OR WELDING MACHINES NESOI; ELECTRIC MACHINES FOR HOT SPRAYING OF METALS OR SINTERED METAL CARBIDES, NESOI.
851590 | PARTS FOR ELECTRIC LASER, ULTRASONIC ETC. WELDING ETC. MACHINES; PARTS FOR ELECTRIC MACHINES FOR HOT SPRAYING OF METALS OR SINTERED METAL CARBIDES.
851610 | ELECTRIC INSTANTANEOUS OR STORAGE WATER HEATERS AND IMMERSION HEATERS.
851621 | ELECTRIC STORAGE HEATING RADIATORS.
851629 | ELECTRIC SPACE HEATING APPARATUS NESOI AND ELECTRIC SOIL HEATING APPARATUS.
851631 | ELECTRIC HAIR DRYERS.
851632 | ELECTROTHERMIC HAIRDRESSING APPARATUS OTHER THAN HAIR DRYERS.
851633 | ELECTRIC HAND-DRYING APPARATUS.
851640 | ELECTRIC FLATIRONS.
851650 | MICROWAVE OVENS.
851660 | ELECTRIC OVENS, COOKING STOVES, RANGES, COOKING PLATES, BOILING RINGS, GRILLERS AND ROASTERS, NESOI.
851671 | ELECTRIC COFFEE OR TEA MAKERS.
851672 | ELECTRIC TOASTERS.
851679 | ELECTROTHERMIC DOMESTIC APPLIANCES, NESOI.
851680 | ELECTRIC HEATING RESISTORS.
851690 | PARTS FOR ELECTRIC WATER HEATERS, SPACE HEATERS, HAIRDRESSING APPARATUS, FLAT IRONS, STOVES, OVENS, COFFEE OR TEA MAKERS, TOASTERS, ETC.
851711 | LINE TELEPHONE SETS WITH CORDLESS HANDSETS.
851713 | TELEPHONES FOR CELLULAR NETWORKS OR FOR OTHER WIRELESS NETWORKS.
851714 | TELEPHONES FOR CELLULAR NETWORKS OR FOR OTHER WIRELESS NETWORKS.
851718 | TELEPHONE SETS, NESOI.
851761 | BASE STATIONS.
851762 | MACHINES FOR THE RECEPTION, CONVERSION AND TRANSMISSION OR REGENERATION OF VOICE, IMAGES OR OTHER DATA, INCLUDING SWITCHING AND ROUTING APPARATUS.
851769 | APPARATUS FOR THE TRANSMISSION OR RECEPTION OF VOICE, IMAGES OR OTHER DATA, INCLUDING SWITCHING AND ROUTING APPARATUS, NESOI.
851771 | PARTS OF TELEPHONE SETS AND OTHER APPARATUS FOR THE TRANSMISSION OR RECEPTION OF VOICE, IMAGES OR OTHER DATA.
851779 | PARTS OF TELEPHONE SETS AND OTHER APPARATUS FOR THE TRANSMISSION OR RECEPTION OF VOICE, IMAGES OR OTHER DATA.
851810 | MICROPHONES AND STANDS THEREFOR.
851821 | SINGLE LOUDSPEAKERS, MOUNTED IN THEIR ENCLOSURES.
851822 | MULTIPLE LOUDSPEAKERS, MOUNTED IN SAME ENCLOSURE.
851829 | LOUDSPEAKERS, NESOI.
851830 | HEADPHONES, EARPHONES WHETHER OR NOT COMBINED MICROPHONE/SPEAKER SETS.
851840 | AUDIO-FREQUENCY ELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS.
851850 | ELECTRIC SOUND AMPLIFIER SETS.
851890 | PARTS OF MICROPHONES, LOUDSPEAKERS, HEADPHONES, EARPHONES, AUDIO-FREQUENCY ELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS, AND ELECTRIC SOUND AMPLIFIER SETS.
851920 | SOUND RECORDING OR REPRODUCING APPARATUS OPERATED BY COINS, BANKNOTES, BANK CARDS, TOKENS OR BY OTHER MEANS OF PAYMENT.
851930 | TURNTABLES (RECORD-DECKS).
851981 | SOUND RECORDING OR REPRODUCING APPARATUS, USING MAGNETIC, OPTICAL OR SEMICONDUCTOR MEDIA, NESOI.
851989 | SOUND RECORDING OR REPRODUCING APPARATUS, NESOI.
852110 | VIDEO RECORDING OR REPRODUCING APPARATUS (WHETHER OR NOT INCORPORATING A VIDEO TUNER), MAGNETIC TAPE-TYPE.
852190 | VIDEO RECORDING OR REPRODUCING APPARATUS (WHETHER OR NOT INCORPORATING A VIDEO TURNER), OTHER THAN MAGNETIC TAPE-TYPE.
852210 | PICKUP CARTRIDGES FOR SOUND RECORDERS.
852290 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES, EXCEPT PICKUP CARTRIDGES, FOR SOUND REPRODUCING, SOUND RECORDING, AND VIDEO RECORDING OR REPRODUCING APPARATUS.
852321 | CARDS INCORPORATING A MAGNETIC STRIPE.
852329 | MAGNETIC MEDIA FOR THE RECORDING OF SOUND OR OTHER PHENOMENA, NESOI.
852341 | OPTICAL MEDIA FOR THE RECORDING OF SOUND OR OF OTHER PHENOMENA, UNRECORDED.
852349 | OPTICAL MEDIA FOR THE RECORDING OF SOUND OR OF OTHER PHENOMENA, RECORDED.
852351 | SOLID-STATE NON-VOLATILE SEMICONDUCTOR STORAGE DEVICES.
852352 | SMART CARDS.
852359 | SEMICONDUCTOR MEDIA, FOR THE RECORDING OF SOUND OR OTHER PHENOMENA, NESOI.
852380 | MEDIA FOR THE RECORDING OF SOUND OR OF OTHER PHENOMENA, NESOI.
852411 | OPTICAL DEVICES, APPLIANCES AND INSTRUMENTS, NESOI.
852412 | PARTS (EXCEPT ANTENNAS AND REFLECTORS) FOR USE WITH RADIO TRANSMISSION, RADAR, RADIO NAVIGATIONAL AID, RECEPTION AND TELEVISION APPARATUS, NESOI.
852419 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR LIQUID CRYSTAL DEVICES, LASERS (OTHER THAN LASER DIODES) AND OTHER OPTICAL APPLIANCES AND INSTRUMENTS, NESOI.
852491 | OTHER RECORDED MEDIA, NESOI, FOR REPRODUCING PHENOMENA OTHER THAN SOUND OR IMAGE.
852492 | PARTS (EXCEPT ANTENNAS AND REFLECTORS) FOR USE WITH RADIO TRANSMISSION, RADAR, RADIO NAVIGATIONAL AID, RECEPTION AND TELEVISION APPARATUS, NESOI.
852499 | RECORDED MEDIA FOR REPRODUCING SOUND OR IMAGE, N.E.S.O.I.
852550 | TRANSMISSION APPARATUS FOR RADIO-BROADCASTING OR TELEVISION.
852560 | TRANSMISSION APPARATUS INCORPORATING RECEPTION APPARATUS, FOR RADIO-BROADCASTING OR TELEVISION.
852581 | TELEVISION CAMERAS, DIGITAL CAMERAS AND VIDEO CAMERA RECORDERS.
852582 | TELEVISION CAMERAS, DIGITAL CAMERAS AND VIDEO CAMERA RECORDERS.
852583 | TELEVISION CAMERAS, DIGITAL CAMERAS AND VIDEO CAMERA RECORDERS.
852589 | TELEVISION CAMERAS, DIGITAL CAMERAS AND VIDEO CAMERA RECORDERS.
852610 | RADAR APPARATUS.
852691 | RADIO NAVIGATIONAL AID APPARATUS.
852692 | RADIO REMOTE CONTROL APPARATUS.
852712 | POCKET-SIZE RADIO CASSETTE PLAYERS.
852713 | RADIOBROADCAST RECEIVERS CAPABLE OF OPERATING WITHOUT AN EXTERNAL SOURCE OF POWER, COMBINED WITH SOUND RECORDING OR REPRODUCING APPARATUS, N.E.S.O.I.
852719 | RADIOBROADCAST RECEIVERS, BATTERY TYPE, NESOI.
852721 | RADIOBROADCAST RECEIVERS FOR MOTOR VEHICLES, COMBINED WITH SOUND RECORDING OR REPRODUCING APPARATUS, NOT CAPABLE OF OPERATING WITHOUT OUTSIDE POWER.
852729 | RADIOBROADCAST RECEIVERS FOR MOTOR VEHICLES, NOT CAPABLE OF OPERATING WITHOUT OUTSIDE POWER, NESOI.
852791 | RECEPTION APPARATUS FOR RADIO-BROADCASTING, COMBINED WITH SOUND RECORDING OR REPRODUCING APPARATUS, NESOI.
852792 | RECEPTION APPARATUS FOR RADIO-BROADCASTING, COMBINED WITH A CLOCK, NESOI.
852799 | RECEPTION APPARATUS FOR RADIO-BROADCASTING, NESOI.
852842 | CATHODE-RAY TUBE MONITORS CAPABLE OF DIRECTLY CONNECTING TO AND DESIGNED FOR USE WITH MACHINES OF HEADING 8471.
852849 | CATHODE-RAY TUBE MONITORS, NOT INCORPORATING TELEVISION RECEPTION APPARATUS, NESOI.
852852 | OTHER MONITORS CAPABLE OF DIRECTLY CONNECTING TO AND DESIGNED FOR USE WITH MACHINES OF HEADIN 8471.
852859 | MONITORS, NOT INCORPORATING TELEVISION RECEPTION APPARATUS, NESOI.
852862 | PROJECTORS CAPABLE OF DIRECTLY CONNECTING TO AND DESIGNED FOR USE WITH ADP MACHINES OF HEADING 8471.
852869 | PROJECTORS, NOT INCORPORATING TELEVISION RECEPTION APPARATUS, NESOI.
852871 | RECEPTION APPARATUS FOR TELEVISION, NOT DESIGNED TO INCORPORATE A VIDEO DISPLAY OR SCREEN.
852872 | RECEPTION APPARATUS FOR TELEVISION, COLOR, NESOI.
852873 | RECEPTION APPARATUS FOR TELEVISION, MONOCHROME, DESIGNED TO INCORPORATED A VIDEO DISPLAY OR SCREEN.
852910 | ANTENNAS AND ANTENNA REFLECTORS AND PARTS THEREOF.
852990 | PARTS (EXCEPT ANTENNAS AND REFLECTORS) FOR USE WITH RADIO TRANSMISSION, RADAR, RADIO NAVIGATIONAL AID, RECEPTION AND TELEVISION APPARATUS, NESOI.
853010 | ELECTRICAL SIGNALING, SAFETY OR TRAFFIC CONTROL EQUIPMENT FOR RAILWAYS, STREETCAR LINES OR SUBWAYS.
853080 | ELECTRICAL SIGNALING, SAFETY OR TRAFFIC CONTROL EQUIPMENT FOR ROADS, INLAND WATERWAYS, PARKING FACILITIES, PORT INSTALLATIONS OR AIRFIELDS.
853090 | PARTS FOR ELECTRICAL SIGNALING, SAFETY OR TRAFFIC CONTROL EQUIPMENT FOR RAIL LINES, ROADS, WATERWAYS, PARKING AREAS, PORT INSTALLATIONS OR AIRFIELDS.
853110 | BURGLAR OR FIRE ALARMS AND SIMILAR APPARATUS.
853120 | INDICATOR PANELS INCORPORATING LIQUID CRYSTAL DEVICES (LCD'S) OR LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (LED'S).
853180 | ELECTRIC SOUND OR VISUAL SIGNALING APPARATUS (FOR EXAMPLE, BELLS, SIRENS, INDICATOR PANELS), NESOI.
853190 | PARTS OF ELECTRIC SOUND OR VISUAL SIGNALING APPARATUS, NESOI.
853210 | FIXED CAPACITORS, DESIGNED FOR USE IN 50/60 HZ CIRCUITS, WITH REACTIVE POWER CAPACITY NOT LESS THAN 0.5 KVAR (POWER CAPACITORS).
853221 | TANTALUM CAPACITORS.
853222 | FIXED CAPACITORS NESOI, ALUMINUM ELECTROLYTIC.
853223 | FIXED CAPACITORS NESOI, SINGLE LAYER CERAMIC DIELECTRIC.
853224 | FIXED CAPACITORS NESOI, MULTILAYER CERAMIC DIELECTRIC.
853225 | FIXED CAPACITORS NESOI, DIELECTRIC OF PAPER OR PLASTICS.
853229 | FIXED CAPACITORS, NESOI.
853230 | VARIABLE OR ADJUSTABLE (PRE-SET) CAPACITORS.
853290 | PARTS FOR ELECTRICAL CAPACITORS.
853310 | FIXED CARBON RESISTORS, COMPOSITION OR FILM TYPES.
853321 | FIXED RESISTORS, NESOI, FOR A POWER HANDLING CAPACITY NOT EXCEDING 20 W.
853329 | FIXED RESISTORS, NESOI, FOR A POWER HANDLING CAPACITY EXCEEDING 20 W.
853331 | WIREWOUND VARIABLE RESISTORS, INCLUDING RHEOSTATS AND POTENTIOMETERS, FOR A POWER HANDLING CAPACITY NOT EXCEEDING 20 W.
853339 | WIREWOUND VARIABLE RESISTORS, INCLUDING RHEOSTATS AND POTENTIOMETERS, FOR A POWER HANDING CAPACITY EXCEEDING 20 W.
853340 | VARIABLE RESISTORS, INCLUDING RHEOSTATS AND POTENTIOMETERS, NESOI.
853390 | PARTS FOR ELECTRICAL RESISTORS, INCLUDING PARTS FOR RHEOSTATS AND POTENTIOMETERS.
853400 | PRINTED CIRCUITS.
853510 | FUSES FOR ELECTRICAL APPARATUS FOR A VOLTAGE EXCEEDING 1,000 V.
853521 | AUTOMATIC CIRCUIT BREAKERS FOR A VOLTAGE EXCEEDING 1,000 V BUT LESS THAN 72.5 KV.
853529 | AUTOMATIC CIRCUIT BREAKERS FOR A VOLTAGE OF 72.5 KV OR MORE.
853530 | ISOLATING SWITCHES AND MAKE-AND-BREAK SWITCHES FOR A VOLTAGE EXCEEDING 1,000 V.
853540 | LIGHTNING ARRESTERS, VOLTAGE LIMITERS, AND SURGE SUPPRESSORS FOR A VOLTAGE EXCEEDING 1,000 V.
853590 | ELECTRICAL APPARATUS FOR SWITCHING, PROTECTING OR MAKING CONNECTIONS TO OR IN ELECTRICAL CIRCUITS, FOR A VOLTAGE EXCEEDING 1,000 V, NESOI.
853610 | FUSES FOR ELECTRICAL APPARATUS FOR A VOLTAGE NOT EXCEEDING 1,000 V.
853620 | AUTOMATIC CIRCUIT BREAKERS FOR A VOLTAGE NOT EXCEEDING 1,000 V.
853630 | ELECTRICAL APPARATUS FOR PROTECTING ELECTRICAL CIRCUITS FOR A VOLTAGE NOT EXCEEDING 1,000 V, NESOI.
853641 | RELAYS FOR A VOLTAGE NOT EXCEEDING 60 V.
853649 | RELAYS FOR A VOLTAGE EXCEEDING 60 V BUT NOT EXCEEDING 1,000 V.
853650 | ELECTRICAL SWITCHES FOR A VOLTAGE NOT EXCEEDING 1,000 V, NESOI.
853661 | ELECTRICAL LAMPHOLDERS FOR A VOLTAGE NOT EXCEEDING 1,000 V.
853669 | ELECTRICAL PLUGS AND SOCKETS FOR A VOLTAGE NOT EXCEEDING 1,000 V.
853670 | CONNECTORS FOR OPTICAL FIBERS, OPTICAL FIBER BUNDLES OR CABLES.
853690 | ELECTRICAL APPARATUS FOR SWITCHING, PROTECTING OR MAKING CONNECTIONS TO OR IN ELECTRICAL CIRCUITS, FOR A VOLTAGE NOT EXCEEDING 1,000 V, NESOI.
853710 | BOARDS, PANELS, CONSOLES, ETC. WITH ELECTRICAL APPARATUS, FOR ELECTRIC CONTROL OR DISTRIBUTION OF ELECTRICITY, FOR A VOLTAGE NOT EXCEEDING 1,000 V.
853720 | BOARDS, PANELS, CONSOLES, ETC. WITH ELECTRICAL APPARATUS, FOR ELECTRIC CONTROL OR DISTRIBUTION OF ELECTRICITY, FOR A VOLTAGE EXCEEDING 1,000 V.
853810 | BOARDS, PANELS, CONSOLES, DESKS, CABINETS, AND OTHER BASES FOR ELECTRIC CONTROL ETC. EQUIPMENT, NOT EQUIPPED WITH ELECTRICAL APPARATUS.
853890 | PARTS FOR ELECTRICAL APPARATUS FOR ELECTRICAL CIRCUITS, BOARDS, PANELS ETC. FOR ELECTRIC CONTROL OR DISTRIBUTION OF ELECTRICITY, NESOI.
853910 | SEALED BEAM ELECTRIC LAMP UNITS.
853921 | TUNGSTEN HALOGEN ELECTRIC FILAMENT LAMPS.
853922 | ELECTRIC FILAMENT LAMPS NESOI, OF A POWER NOT EXCEEDING 200 W AND FOR A VOLTAGE EXCEEDING 100 V.
853929 | ELECTRIC FILAMENT LAMPS, NESOI.
853931 | ELECTRIC DISCHARGE LAMPS (OTHER THAN ULTRAVIOLET LAMPS), FLUORESCENT, HOT CATHODE.
853932 | MERCURY OR SODIUM VAPOR DISCHARGE LAMPS; METAL HALIDE DISCHARGE LAMPS.
853939 | ELECTRIC DISCHARGE LAMPS (OTHER THAN ULTRAVIOLET OR FLUORESCENT, HOT CATHODE LAMPS), NESOI.
853941 | ARC LAMPS.
853949 | ULTRAVIOLET OR INFRARED LAMPS.
853951 | ELECTRIC LAMPS AND LIGHTING FITTINGS, NESOI.
853952 | LIGHT-EMITTING DIODE (LED) LAMPS.
853990 | PARTS FOR ELECTRIC FILAMENT, DISCHARGE OR ARC LAMPS.
854011 | CATHODE-RAY TELEVISION PICTURE TUBES, COLOR, INCLUDING VIDEO MONITOR CATHODE-RAY TUBES.
854012 | CATHODE-RAY TELEVISION PICTURE TUBES, INCLUDING VIDEO MONITOR CATHODE-RAY TUBES, MONOCHROME.
854020 | TELEVISION CAMERA TUBES; IMAGE CONVERTERS AND INTENSIFIERS; OTHER PHOTOCATHODE TUBES.
854040 | DATA/GRAPHIC DISPLAY TUBES, MONOCHROME; DATA/GRAPHIC DISPLAY TUBES, COLOR, WITH A PHOSPHOR DOT SCREEN PITCH SMALLER THAN 0.4 MM.
854060 | CATHODE-RAY TUBES, N.E.S.O.I.
854071 | MAGNETRON MICROWAVE TUBES.
854079 | MICROWAVE TUBES, NESOI.
854081 | RECEIVER OR AMPLIFIER TUBES.
854089 | THERMIONIC AND OTHER CATHODE TUBES, NESOI.
854091 | PARTS OF CATHODE-RAY TUBES.
854099 | PARTS OF CATHODE TUBES, NESOI.
854110 | DIODES, OTHER THAN PHOTOSENSITIVE OR LIGHT-EMITTING DIODES.
854121 | TRANSISTORS, OTHER THAN PHOTOSENSITIVE, WITH A DISSIPATION RATE OF LESS THAN 1 W.
854129 | TRANSISTORS, OTHER THAN PHOTOSENSITIVE, NESOI.
854130 | THYRISTORS, DIACS AND TRIACS, OTHER THAN PHOTOSENSITIVE DEVICES.
854141 | PHOTOSENSITIVE SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES, INCLUDING PHOTOVOLTAIC CELLS; LIGHT-EMITTING DIODES.
854142 | PHOTOSENSITIVE SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES, INCLUDING PHOTOVOLTAIC CELLS; LIGHT-EMITTING DIODES.
854143 | PHOTOSENSITIVE SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES, INCLUDING PHOTOVOLTAIC CELLS; LIGHT-EMITTING DIODES.
854149 | PHOTOSENSITIVE SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES, INCLUDING PHOTOVOLTAIC CELLS; LIGHT-EMITTING DIODES.
854151 | SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES, EXCEPT PHOTOSENSITIVE AND PHOTOVOLTAIC CELLS, NESOI.
854159 | SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES, EXCEPT PHOTOSENSITIVE AND PHOTOVOLTAIC CELLS, NESOI.
854160 | MOUNTED PIEZOELECTRIC CRYSTALS.
854190 | PARTS FOR DIODES, TRANSISTORS AND SIMILAR SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES; PARTS FOR PHOTOSENSITIVE SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES AND MOUNTED PIEZOELECTRIC CRYSTALS.
854231 | PROCESSORS AND CONTROLLERS, ELECTRONIC INTEGRATED CIRCUITS.
854232 | MEMORIES, ELECTRONIC INTEGRATED CIRCUITS.
854233 | AMPLIFIERS, ELECTRONIC INTEGRATED CIRCUITS.
854239 | ELECTRONIC INTEGRATED CIRCUITS, NESOI.
854290 | PARTS FOR ELECTRONIC INTEGRATED CIRCUITS AND MICROASSEMBLIES.
854310 | PARTICLE ACCELERATORS.
854320 | ELECTRICAL SIGNAL GENERATORS.
854330 | ELECTRICAL MACHINES AND APPARATUS FOR ELECTROPLATING, ELECTROLYSIS OR ELECTROPHORESIS.
854340 | ELECTRIC FENCE ENERGIZERS.
854370 | ELECTRICAL MACHINES AND APPARATUS, HAVING INDIVIDUAL FUNCTIONS, NESOI.
854390 | PARTS FOR ELECTRICAL MACHINES AND APPARATUS HAVING INDIVIDUAL FUNCTIONS, NESOI.
854411 | INSULATED WINDING WIRE OF COPPER.
854419 | INSULATED WINDING WIRE, NESOI.
854420 | INSULATED COAXIAL CABLE AND OTHER COAXIAL ELECTRICAL CONDUCTORS.
854430 | INSULATED IGNITION WIRING SETS AND OTHER WIRING SETS FOR VEHICLES, AIRCRAFT AND SHIPS.
854442 | ELECTRIC CONDUCTORS, FOR A VOLTAGE NOT EXCEEDING 1000 V, FITTED WITH CONNECTORS, NESOI.
854449 | INSULATED ELECTRIC CONDUCTORS, FOR A VOLTAGE NOT EXCEEDING 80 V, NOT FITTED WITH CONNECTORS.
854460 | INSULATED ELECTRIC CONDUCTORS, FOR A VOLTAGE EXCEEDING 1,000 V.
854470 | INSULATED OPTICAL FIBER CABLES, MADE UP OF INDIVIDUALLY SHEATHED FIBERS.
854511 | CARBON ELECTRODES OF A KIND USED FOR FURNACES.
854519 | CARBON ELECTRODES NESOI.
854520 | ELECTRICAL CARBON OR GRAPHITE BRUSHES.
854590 | ELECTRICAL CARBON OR GRAPHITE ARTICLES, NESOI.
854610 | ELECTRICAL INSULATORS OF GLASS.
854620 | ELECTRICAL INSULATORS OF CERAMICS.
854690 | ELECTRICAL INSULATORS, NESOI.
854710 | INSULATING FITTINGS OF CERAMICS, FOR ELECTRICAL MACHINES OR APPLIANCES.
854720 | INSULATING FITTINGS OF PLASTICS, FOR ELECTRICAL MACHINES OR APPLIANCES.
854790 | INSULATING FITTINGS NESOI, FOR ELECTRICAL MACHINES OR APPLIANCES; ELECTRICAL CONDUIT TUBING AND JOINTS, OF BASE METAL LINED WITH INSULATING MATERIAL.
854800 | ELECTRICAL PARTS OF MACHINERY OR APPARATUS, NESOI.
854911 | WASTE AND SCRAP OF PRIMARY CELLS, PRIMARY BATTERIES AND ELECTRIC STORAGE BATTERIES; SPENT PRIMARY CELLS, SPENT PRIMARY AND ELECTRIC STORAGE BATTERIES.
854912 | WASTE AND SCRAP OF PRIMARY CELLS, PRIMARY BATTERIES AND ELECTRIC STORAGE BATTERIES; SPENT PRIMARY CELLS, SPENT PRIMARY AND ELECTRIC STORAGE BATTERIES.
854913 | WASTE AND SCRAP OF PRIMARY CELLS, PRIMARY BATTERIES AND ELECTRIC STORAGE BATTERIES; SPENT PRIMARY CELLS, SPENT PRIMARY AND ELECTRIC STORAGE BATTERIES.
854914 | WASTE AND SCRAP OF PRIMARY CELLS, PRIMARY BATTERIES AND ELECTRIC STORAGE BATTERIES; SPENT PRIMARY CELLS, SPENT PRIMARY AND ELECTRIC STORAGE BATTERIES.
854919 | WASTE AND SCRAP OF PRIMARY CELLS, PRIMARY BATTERIES AND ELECTRIC STORAGE BATTERIES; SPENT PRIMARY CELLS, SPENT PRIMARY AND ELECTRIC STORAGE BATTERIES.
854921 | MUNICIPAL WASTE.
854929 | WASTE AS SPECIFIED IN CHAPTER 38 NOTES, NESOI.
854931 | CULLET AND OTHER WASTE AND SCRAP OF GLASS; GLASS IN THE MASS.
854939 | WASTE AND SCRAP OF PRECIOUS METAL, NESOI.
854991 | CULLET AND OTHER WASTE AND SCRAP OF GLASS; GLASS IN THE MASS.
854999 | WASTE AND SCRAP OF PRECIOUS METAL, NESOI.
860110 | RAIL LOCOMOTIVES POWERED FROM AN EXTERNAL SOURCE OF ELECTRICITY.
860120 | RAIL LOCOMOTIVES POWERED BY ELECTRIC ACCUMULATORS (BATTERIES).
860210 | DIESEL-ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES.
860290 | RAIL LOCOMOTIVES, NESOI; LOCOMOTIVE TENDERS.
860310 | SELF-PROPELLED RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY COACHES, VANS AND TRUCKS (EXCEPT RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY MAINTENANCE OR SERVICE VEHICLES), POWERED EXTERNALLY, ELECTRIC.
860390 | SELF-PROPELLED RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY COACHES, VANS AND TRUCKS (EXCEPT RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY MAINTENANCE OR SERVICE VEHICLES), NESOI.
860400 | RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY MAINTENANCE OR SERVICE VEHICLES, WHETHER OR NOT SELF-PROPELLED (FOR EXAMPLE, WORKSHOPS, CRANES, BALLAST TAMPERS, TRACKLINERS, ETC.).
860500 | RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY PASSENGER COACHES, LUGGAGE VANS, POST OFFICE COACHES AND OTHER SPECIAL PURPOSE RAIL OR TRAMWAY COACHES, NOT SELF-PROPELLED, NESOI.
860610 | RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY TANK CARS AND THE LIKE, NOT SELF-PROPELLED.
860630 | RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY SELF-DISCHARGING CARS (OTHER THAN TANK CARS AND THE LIKE OR INSULATED OR REFRIGERATED CARS), NOT SELF-PROPELLED.
860691 | RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY FREIGHT CARS, COVERED AND CLOSED, NOT SELF-PROPELLED, NESOI.
860692 | RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY FREIGHT CARS, OPEN, WITH NON-REMOVABLE SIDES OF A HEIGHT EXCEEDING 60 CM, NOT SELF-PROPELLED, NESOI.
860699 | RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY FREIGHT CARS, NOT SELF-PROPELLED, NESOI.
860711 | TRUCK ASSEMBLIES FOR SELF-PROPELLED RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY LOCOMOTIVES OR ROLLING STOCK.
860712 | TRUCK ASSEMBLIES, NESOI, FOR RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY ROLLING STOCK.
860719 | TRUCK AXLES AND WHEELS AND PARTS THEREOF, INCLUDING PARTS OF TRUCK ASSEMBLIES, FOR RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY VEHICLES.
860721 | AIRBRAKES AND PARTS THEREOF, FOR RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY VEHICLES.
860729 | BRAKES (EXCEPT AIRBRAKES) AND PARTS THEREOF, FOR RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY VEHICLES.
860730 | HOOKS AND OTHER COUPLING DEVICES, BUFFERS AND PARTS THEREOF, FOR RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY VEHICLES.
860791 | PARTS OF RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY LOCOMOTIVES, NESOI.
860799 | PARTS OF RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY VEHICLES, OTHER THAN LOCOMOTIVES, NESOI.
860800 | RAIL TRACK FIXTURES; MECHANICAL SIGNALING, SAFETY OR TRAFFIC CONTROL EQUIPMENT FOR RAIL, ROAD, WATERWAY, PARKING, AIRFIELD ETC. AREAS; PARTS THEREOF.
860900 | CONTAINERS (INCLUDING CONTAINERS FOR THE TRANSPORT OF FLUIDS) SPECIALLY DESIGNED AND EQUIPPED FOR CARRIAGE BY ONE OR MORE MODES OF TRANSPORT.
870110 | TRACTORS, PEDESTRIAN CONTROLLED TYPE (OTHER THAN TRACTORS OF THE TYPE USED ON RAILWAY STATION PLATFORMS).
870121 | ROAD TRACTORS FOR SEMI-TRAILERS.
870122 | ROAD TRACTORS FOR SEMI-TRAILERS.
870123 | ROAD TRACTORS FOR SEMI-TRAILERS.
870124 | ROAD TRACTORS FOR SEMI-TRAILERS.
870129 | ROAD TRACTORS FOR SEMI-TRAILERS.
870130 | TRACK-LAYING TRACTORS.
870191 | TRACTORS (OTHER THAN TRACTORS OF HEADING 8709), NOT EXCEEDING 18KW.
870192 | TRACTORS (OTHER THAN TRACTORS OF HEADING 8709), EXCEEDING 18 KW BUT NOT EXCEEDING 37 KW.
870193 | TRACTORS (OTHER THAN TRACTORS OF HEADING 8709), EXCEEDING 37 KW BUT NOT EXCEEDING 75 KW.
870194 | TRACTORS (OTHER THAN TRACTORS OF HEADING 8709), EXCEEDING 75 KW BUT NOT EXCEEDING 130 KW.
870195 | TRACTORS (OTHER THAN TRACTORS OF HEADING 8709) EXCEEDING 130 KW.
870210 | MOTOR VEHICLES FOR THE TRANSPORT OF TEN OR MORE PERSONS, WITH A COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINE (DIESEL OR SEMI-DIESEL).
870220 | MOTOR VEHICLES FOR TRANSPORT OF 10 OR MORE WITH BOTH COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUST PISTON ENG (DIESEL OR SEMI-DIESEL) AND ELECTRIC MOTOR.
870230 | MOTOR VEHICLES FOR TRANSPORT OF 10 OR MORE WITH BOTH SPARK-IGNITION RECIPROCATING PISTON AND ELECTRIC MOTOR.
870240 | MOTOR VEHICLES FOR TRANSPORT OF 10 OR MORE WITH ONLY ELECTRIC MOTOR FOR PROPULSION.
870290 | MOTOR VEHICLES FOR THE TRANSPORT OF TEN OR MORE PERSONS, NESOI.
870310 | PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES SPECIALLY DESIGNEED FOR TRAVELING ON SNOW; GOLF CARTS AND SIMILAR VEHICLES.
870321 | PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES WITH SPARK-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION RECIPROCATING PISTON ENGINE, CYLINDER CAPACITY NOT OVER 1,000 CC.
870322 | PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES WITH SPARK-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION RECIPROCATING PISTON ENGINE, CYLINDER CAPACITY OVER 1,000 CC BUT NOT OVER 1,500 CC.
870323 | PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES WITH SPARK-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION RECIPROCATING PISTON ENGINE, CYLINDER CAPACITY OVER 1,500 CC BUT NOT OVER 3,000 CC.
870324 | PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES WITH SPARK-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION RECIPROCATING PISTON ENGINE, CYCLINDER CAPACITY OVER 3,000 CC.
870331 | PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES WITH COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINE (DIESEL), CYLINDER CAPACITY NOT OVER 1,500 CC.
870332 | PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES WITH COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINE (DIESEL), CYLINDER CAPACITY OVER 1,500 CC BUT NOT OVER 2,500 CC.
870333 | PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES WITH COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINE (DIESEL), CYLINDER CAPACITY OVER 2,500 CC.
870340 | PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES, WITH BOTH APRK-IG INTRNL COMBUST AND ELECTRIC MOTOR, OTHER THAN THOSE CHARGES BY PLUGGIN TO EXTERNAL ELECTRIC POWER.
870350 | MOTOR VEHICLES, WITH BOTH COMPRES-IG INTERNAL COMBUS PISTON ENGINE (DIESEL/SEMI-DIESEL) AND ELECTRIC MOTOR,NOT CHARGED BY PLUG.
870360 | MOTOR VEHICLES WITH BOTH SPARK-IG AND ELECTRIC MOTOR, CAPABLE OF CHARGE BY PLUGGING TO EXTNL PWR.
870370 | MOTOR VEHICLES, WITH BOTH COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION (DIESEL/SEMI-DIESEL AND ELECTRIC MOTOR, CAPABLE OF CHARGED BY PLUGGING.
870380 | MOTOR VEHICLES WITH ONLY ELECTRIC MOTOR, NESOI.
870390 | PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES, NESOI.
870410 | DUMPERS (DUMP TRUCKS) DESIGNED FOR OFF-HIGHWAY USE.
870421 | MOTOR VEHICLES FOR GOODS TRANSPORT NESOI, WITH COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINE (DIESEL), GVW NOT OVER 5 METRIC TONS.
870422 | MOTOR VEHICLES FOR GOODS TRANSPORT NESOI, WITH COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINE (DIESEL), GVW OVER 5 BUT NOT OVER 20 METRIC TONS.
870423 | MOTOR VEHICLES FOR GOODS TRANSPORT NESOI, WITH COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINE (DIESEL), GVW OVER 20 METRIC TONS.
870431 | MOTOR VEHICLES FOR GOODS TRANSPORT NESOI, WITH SPARK-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINE, GVW NOT OVER 5 METRIC TONS.
870432 | MOTOR VEHICLES FOR GOODS TRANSPORT NESOI, WITH SPARK-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINE, GVW OVER 5 METRIC TONS.
870441 | MOTOR VEHICLES FOR THE TRANSPORT OF GOODS, NESOI.
870442 | MOTOR VEHICLES FOR THE TRANSPORT OF GOODS, NESOI.
870443 | MOTOR VEHICLES FOR THE TRANSPORT OF GOODS, NESOI.
870451 | MOTOR VEHICLES FOR THE TRANSPORT OF GOODS, NESOI.
870452 | MOTOR VEHICLES FOR THE TRANSPORT OF GOODS, NESOI.
870460 | MOTOR VEHICLES FOR THE TRANSPORT OF GOODS, NESOI.
870490 | MOTOR VEHICLES FOR THE TRANSPORT OF GOODS, NESOI.
870510 | MOBILE CRANES.
870520 | MOBILE DRILLING DERRICKS.
870530 | FIRE FIGHTING VEHICLES.
870540 | CONCRETE MIXERS, SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES.
870590 | SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES, OTHER THAN THOSE PRINCIPALLY DESIGNED FOR THE TRANSPORT OF PERSONS OR GOODS, NESOI.
870790 | BODIES (INCLUDING CABS) FOR ROAD TRACTORS FOR SEMI-TRAILERS, MOTOR VEHICLES FOR PUBLIC-TRANSPORT OF PASSENGERS, GOODS TRANSPORT AND SPECIAL PURPOSE.
870810 | BUMPERS AND PARTS THEREOF FOR MOTOR VEHICLES.
870821 | SAFETY SEAT BELTS FOR MOTOR VEHICLES.
870822 | LAMINATED SAFETY GLASS, OF SIZE AND SHAPE SUITABLE FOR INCORPORATION IN VEHICLES, AIRCRAFT, SPACECRAFT OR VESSELS.
870829 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES OF BODIES (INCLUDING CABS) FOR MOTOR VEHICLES, NESOI.
870830 | BRAKES AND SERVO-BRAKES; PARTS THEREOF.
870840 | GEAR BOXES FOR MOTOR VEHICLES.
870850 | DRIVE AXLES WITH DIFFERENTIAL FOR MOTOR VEHICLES.
870870 | ROAD WHEELS AND PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF FOR MOTOR VEHICLES.
870880 | SUSPENSION SHOCK ABSORBERS FOR MOTOR VEHICLES.
870891 | RADIATORS FOR MOTOR VEHICLES.
870892 | MUFFLERS AND EXHAUST PIPES FOR MOTOR VEHICLES.
870893 | CLUTCHES AND PARTS THEREOF FOR MOTOR VEHICLES.
870894 | STEERING WHEELS, STEERING COLUMNS AND STEERING BOXES FOR MOTOR VEHICLES.
870895 | SAFETY AIRBAGS WITH INFLATOR SYSTEM; PARTS THEREOF.
870911 | WORKS TRUCKS (NOT LIFTING OR HANDLING) USED IN FACTORIES ETC. AND TRACTORS USED ON RAILWAY STATION PLATFORMS, ELECTRICAL.
870919 | WORKS TRUCKS (NOT LIFTING OR HANDLING) USED IN FACTORIES ETC. AND TRACTORS USED ON RAILWAY STATION PLATFORMS, NOT ELECTRICAL.
870990 | PARTS FOR WORKS TRUCKS (NOT LIFTING OR HANDLING) USED IN FACTORIES ETC. AND PARTS OF TRACTORS OF THE TYPE USED ON RAILWAY STATION PLATFORMS.
871000 | TANKS AND OTHER ARMORED FIGHTING VEHICLES, MOTORIZED, WHETHER OR NOT FITTED WITH WEAPONS, AND PARTS OF SUCH VEHICLES.
871110 | MOTORCYCLES AND CYCLES WITH AN AUXILIARY MOTOR, WITH RECIPROCATING INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINE, CYLINDER CAPACITY NOT OVER 50 CC.
871200 | BICYCLES AND OTHER CYCLES (INCLUDING DELIVERY TRICYCLES), NOT MOTORIZED.
871491 | FRAMES AND FORKS, AND PARTS THEREOF FOR BICYCLES AND OTHER CYCLES NESOI.
871492 | WHEEL RIMS AND SPOKES FOR BICYCLES AND OTHER CYCLES NESOI.
871493 | HUBS (OTHER THAN COASTER BRAKING HUBS AND HUB BRAKES) AND FREE-WHEEL SPROCKET-WHEELS FOR BICYCLES AND OTHER CYCLES NESOI.
871494 | BRAKES, INCLUDING COASTER BRAKING HUBS AND HUB BRAKES AND PARTS THERE OF, FOR BICYCLES AND OTHER CYCLES NESOI.
871495 | SADDLES FOR BICYCLES AND OTHER CYCLES NESOI.
871496 | PEDALS AND CRANK-GEAR, AND PARTS THEREOF FOR BICYCLES AND OTHER CYCLES NESOI.
871499 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES NESOI, FOR BICYCLES AND OTHER CYCLES NESOI.
871610 | TRAILERS AND SEMI-TRAILERS FOR HOUSING OR CAMPING.
871620 | SELF-LOADING OR SELF-UNLOADING TRAILERS AND SEMI-TRAILERS FOR AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES.
871631 | TANKER TRAILERS AND TANKER SEMI-TRAILERS.
871639 | TRAILERS AND SEMI-TRAILERS FOR THE TRANSPORT OF GOODS, NESOI.
871640 | TRAILERS AND SEMI-TRAILERS, NESOI.
871680 | VEHICLES (OTHER THAN TRAILERS AND SEMI-TRAILERS), NOT MECHANICALLY PROPELLED, NESOI.
871690 | PARTS OF TRAILERS, SEMI-TRAILERS AND OTHER VEHICLES, NOT MECHANICALLY PROPELLED.
880100 | HANG GLIDERS, GLIDERS, BALLOONS, DIRIGIBLES AND OTHER NON-POWERED AIRCRAFT.
880211 | HELICOPTERS OF AN UNLADEN WEIGHT NOT EXCEEDING 2,000 KG.
880212 | HELICOPTERS OF AN UNLADEN WEIGHT EXCEEDING 2,000 KG.
880220 | AIRPLANES AND OTHER AIRCRAFT NESOI, OF AN UNLADEN WEIGHT NOT EXCEEDING 2,000 KG.
880230 | AIRPLANES AND OTHER AIRCRAFT NESOI, OF AN UNLADEN WEIGHT EXCEEDING 2,000 KG BUT NOT EXCEEDING 15,000 KG.
880240 | AIRPLANES AND OTHER AIRCRAFT NESOI, OF AN UNLADEN WEIGHT EXCEEDING 15,000 KG.
880260 | SPACECRAFT (INCLUDING SATELLITES) AND SUBORBITAL AND SPACECRAFT LAUNCH VEHICLES.
880400 | PARACHUTES (INCLUDING DIRIGIBLE PARACHUTES AND PARAGLIDERS) AND ROTOCHUTES; PARTS THEREOF AND ACCESSORIES THERETO.
880510 | AIRCRAFT LAUNCHING GEAR AND PARTS THEREOF; DECK-ARRESTORS OR SIMILAR GEAR AND PARTS THEREOF.
880521 | AIR COMBAT SIMULATORS AND PARTS THEREOF.
880529 | GROUND FLYING TRAINERS AND PARTS THEREOF, NESOI.
880610 | UNMANNED AIRCRAFT DESIGNED FOR THE CARRIAGE OF PASSENGERS.
880621 | UNMANNED AIRCRAFT FOR REMOTE-CONTROLLED FLIGHT ONLY, WITH MAXIMUM TAKE-OFF WEIGHT NOT MORE THAN 250 G.
880622 | UNMANNED AIRCRAFT FOR REMOTE-CONTROLLED FLIGHT ONLY, WITH MAXIMUM TAKE-OFF WEIGHT MORE THAN 250 G BUT NOT MORE THAN 7 KG.
880623 | UNMANNED AIRCRAFT FOR REMOTE-CONTROLLED FLIGHT ONLY, WITH MAXIMUM TAKE-OFF WEIGHT MORE THAN 7 KG BUT NOT MORE THAN 25 KG.
880624 | UNMANNED AIRCRAFT FOR REMOTE-CONTROLLED FLIGHT ONLY, WITH MAXIMUM TAKE-OFF WEIGHT MORE THAN 25 KG BUT NOT MORE THAN 150 KG.
880629 | UNMANNED AIRCRAFT FOR REMOTE-CONTROLLED FLIGHT ONLY, WITH MAXIMUM TAKE-OFF WEIGHT MORE THAN 150 KG.
880691 | UNMANNED AIRCRAFT WITH MAXIMUM TAKE-OFF WEIGHT NOT MORE THAN 250 G, NESOI.
880692 | UNMANNED AIRCRAFT WITH MAXIMUM TAKE-OFF WEIGHT MORE THAN 250 G BUT NOT MORE THAN 7 KG, NESOI.
880693 | UNMANNED AIRCRAFT WITH MAXIMUM TAKE-OFF WEIGHT MORE THAN 7 KG BUT NOT MORE THAN 25 KG, NESOI.
880694 | UNMANNED AIRCRAFT WITH MAXIMUM TAKE-OFF WEIGHT MORE THAN 25 KG BUT NOT MORE THAN 150 KG, NESOI.
880699 | UNMANNED AIRCRAFT WITH MAXIMUM TAKE-OFF WEIGHT MORE THAN 150 KG, NESOI.
880710 | PROPELLERS AND ROTORS AND PARTS THEREOF, FOR BALLOONS, GLIDERS, OTHER AIRCRAFT AND SPACECRAFT, ETC.
880720 | UNDERCARRIAGES AND PARTS THEREOF, FOR BALLOONS, GLIDERS, OTHER AIRCRAFT AND SPACECRAFT, ETC.
880730 | PARTS OF AIRPLANES OR HELICOPTERS, NESOI.
880790 | PARTS FOR USE IN CIVIL AIRCRAFT, BALLOONS, DIRIGIBLES, GLIDERS, HANG GLIDERS AND OTHER NON-POWERED AIRCRAFT, NESOI.
890110 | CRUISE SHIPS, EXCURSION BOATS AND SIMILAR VESSELS PRINCIPALLY DESIGNED FOR THE TRANSPORT OF PERSONS; FERRY BOATS OF ALL KINDS.
890120 | TANKERS FOR THE TRANSPORT OF GOODS.
890130 | REFRIGERATED VESSELS, OTHER THAN TANKERS.
890190 | VESSELS NESOI, FOR THE TRANSPORT OF GOODS, AND OTHER VESSELS NESOI, FOR THE TRANSPORT OF BOTH PERSONS AND GOODS.
890200 | FISHING VESSELS; FACTORY SHIPS AND OTHER VESSELS FOR PROCESSING OR PRESERVING FISHERY PRODUCTS.
890311 | INFLATABLE YACHTS AND VESSELS FOR PLEASURE OR SPORTS, INCLUDING INFLATABLE ROW BOATS AND CANOES.
890312 | INFLATABLE YACHTS AND VESSELS FOR PLEASURE OR SPORTS, INCLUDING INFLATABLE ROW BOATS AND CANOES.
890319 | INFLATABLE YACHTS AND VESSELS FOR PLEASURE OR SPORTS, INCLUDING INFLATABLE ROW BOATS AND CANOES.
890321 | SAILBOATS, WITH OR WITHOUT AUXILIARY MOTOR.
890322 | SAILBOATS, WITH OR WITHOUT AUXILIARY MOTOR.
890323 | SAILBOATS, WITH OR WITHOUT AUXILIARY MOTOR.
890331 | MOTORBOATS, OTHER THAN OUTBOARD MOTORBOATS.
890332 | MOTORBOATS, OTHER THAN OUTBOARD MOTORBOATS.
890333 | MOTORBOATS, OTHER THAN OUTBOARD MOTORBOATS.
890393 | YACHTS AND OTHER VESSELS FOR PLEASURE OR SPORTS NESOI; ROW BOATS AND CANOES (NOT DESIGNED TO BE PRINCIPALLY USED WITH MOTORS OR SAILS) NESOI.
890399 | YACHTS AND OTHER VESSELS FOR PLEASURE OR SPORTS NESOI; ROW BOATS AND CANOES (NOT DESIGNED TO BE PRINCIPALLY USED WITH MOTORS OR SAILS) NESOI.
890400 | TUGS AND PUSHER CRAFT VESSELS.
890510 | DREDGERS (VESSELS).
890610 | WARSHIPS (INCLUDING SUBMARINES, TROOPSHIPS ETC.).
890690 | VESSELS (OTHER THAN WARSHIPS) INCLUDING LIFEBOATS, OTHER THAN ROW BOATS, NESOI.
890710 | INFLATABLE RAFTS.
890790 | FLOATING STRUCTURES (FOR EXAMPLE, TANKS, COFFERDAMS, LANDING-STAGES, BUOYS AND BEACONS), EXCEPT INFLATABLE RAFTS.
890800 | VESSELS AND FLOATING STRUCTURES FOR BREAKING UP (SCRAPPING).
900110 | OPTICAL FIBERS, OPTICAL FIBER BUNDLES AND CABLES, OTHER THAN OPTICAL FIBER CABLES MADE UP OF INDIVIDUALLY SHEATHED FIBERS.
900120 | SHEETS AND PLATES OF POLARIZING MATERIAL.
900130 | CONTACT LENSES.
900140 | SPECTACLE LENSES OF GLASS.
900150 | SPECTACLE LENSES OF MATERIALS OTHER THAN GLASS.
900190 | LENSES (EXCEPT CONTACT AND SPECTACLE), PRISMS, MIRRORS AND OTHER OPTICAL ELEMENTS, UNMOUNTED, OTHER THAN ELEMENTS OF GLASS NOT OPTICALLY WORKED.
900211 | OBJECTIVE LENSES AND PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF FOR CAMERAS, PROJECTORS OR PHOTOGRAPHIC ENLARGERS OR REDUCERS.
900219 | OBJECTIVE LENSES AND PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF FOR INSTRUMENTS OR APPARATUS, NESOI.
900220 | OPTICAL FILTERS AND PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF FOR INSTRUMENTS OR APPARATUS.
900290 | PRISMS, MIRRORS AND OTHER OPTICAL ELEMENTS, MOUNTED, AND PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF, NESOI.
900311 | FRAMES AND MOUNTINGS FOR SPECTACLES, GOGGLES OR THE LIKE, OF PLASTICS.
900319 | FRAMES AND MOUNTINGS FOR SPECTACLES, GOGGLES OR THE LIKE, OF MATERIALS OTHER THAN PLASTICS.
900390 | PARTS OF FRAMES AND MOUNTINGS FOR SPECTACLES, GOGGLES OR THE LIKE.
900410 | SUNGLASSES.
900490 | SPECTACLES, GOGGLES AND THE LIKE, CORRECTIVE, PROTECTIVE OR OTHER, NESOI.
900510 | BINOCULARS.
900580 | MONOCULARS, OTHER OPTICAL TELESCOPES AND MOUNTINGS; OTHER ASTRONOMICAL INSTRUMENTS AND MOUNTINGS, EXCLUDING INSTRUMENTS FOR RADIO-ASTRONOMY.
900590 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES (INCLUDING MOUNTINGS) OF BINOCULARS, MONOCULARS, OTHEROTHER OPTICAL TELECOPES AND ASTRONOMICAL INSTRUMENTS NESOI.
900630 | CAMERAS DESIGNED FOR UNDERWATER USE, FOR AERIAL SURVEY, OR MEDICAL/SURGICAL EXAMINATION OF INTERNAL ORGANS; CAMERAS FOR FORENSIC OR CRIMINOLOGICAL USE.
900640 | INSTANT PRINT CAMERAS.
900653 | CAMERAS (STILL) NESOI, FOR ROLL FILM OF A WIDTH OF 35 MM (1.4 INCH).
900659 | PHOTOGRAPHIC CAMERAS (OTHER THAN CINEMATOGRAPHIC), NESOI.
900661 | PHOTOGRAPHIC DISCHARGE LAMP (ELECTRONIC) FLASHLIGHT APPARATUS.
900669 | PHOTOGRAPHIC FLASHLIGHT APPARATUS, NESOI.
900691 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR PHOTOGRAPHIC (OTHER THAN CINEMATOGRAPHIC) CAMERAS.
900699 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR PHOTOGRAPHIC FLASHLIGHT APPARATUS AND FLASHBULBS, NESOI.
900710 | CINEMATOGRAPHIC CAMERAS.
900720 | CINEMATOGRAPHIC PROJECTORS, WHETHER OR NOT INCORPORATING SOUND RECORDING OR REPRODUCING APPARATUS.
900791 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR CINEMATOGRAPHIC CAMERAS.
900792 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR CINEMATOGRAPHIC PROJECTORS.
900850 | IMAGE AND PHOTOGRAPHIC PROJECTORS, ENLARGERS AND REDUCERS, OTHER THAN CINEMATOGRAPHIC.
900890 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES OF IMAGE PROJECTORS, PHOTOGRAPHIC ENLARGERS AND REDUCERS, OTHER THAN CINEMATOGRAPHIC.
901010 | PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT FOR THE AUTOMATIC DEVELOPMENT OF FILM OR PAPER IN ROLLS OR AUTOMATICALLY EXPOSING DEVELOPED FILM TO ROLLS OF PHOTOGRAPHIC PAPER.
901050 | APPARATUS AND EQUIPMENT FOR PHOTOGRAPHIC (INCLUDING CIMETOGRAPHIC) LABORATORIES, N.E.S.O.I.; NEGATOSCOPES.
901060 | PROJECTION SCREENS.
901090 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES OF APPARATUS AND EQUIPMENT FOR PHOTOGRAPHIC (INCLUDING CINEMATOGRAPHIC) LABORATORIES NESOI, NEGATOSCOPES AND PROJECTION SCREENS.
901110 | STEREOSCOPIC MICROSCOPES.
901120 | MICROSCOPES NESOI, FOR PHOTOMICROGRAPHY, CINEPHOTOMICROGRAPHY OR MICROPROJECTION.
901180 | COMPOUND OPTICAL MICROSCOPES, NESOI.
901190 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR COMPOUND OPTICAL MICROSCOPES.
901210 | MICROSCOPES OTHER THAN OPTICAL MICROSCOPES; DIFFRACTION APPARATUS.
901290 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR MICROSCOPES OTHER THAN OPTICAL MICROSCOPES; PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR DIFFRACTION APPARATUS.
901310 | TELESCOPIC SIGHTS FOR FITTING TO ARMS; PERISCOPES; TELESCOPES FOR OPTICAL, PHOTOGRAPHIC, PRECISION, MEDICAL AND ELECTRICAL MACHINES, APPLIANCES, ETC.
901320 | LASERS, OTHER THAN LASER DIODES.
901380 | OPTICAL DEVICES, APPLIANCES AND INSTRUMENTS, NESOI.
901390 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR LIQUID CRYSTAL DEVICES, LASERS (OTHER THAN LASER DIODES) AND OTHER OPTICAL APPLIANCES AND INSTRUMENTS, NESOI.
901410 | DIRECTION FINDING COMPASSES.
901420 | INSTRUMENTS AND APPLIANCES FOR AERONAUTICAL OR SPACE NAVIGATION (OTHER THAN COMPASSES).
901480 | NAVIGATIONAL INSTRUMENTS AND APPLIANCES, NESOI.
901490 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR DIRECTION FINDING COMPASSES AND OTHER NAVIGATIONAL INSTRUMENTS AND APPLIANCES.
901510 | RANGEFINDERS.
901520 | THEODOLITES AND TACHYOMETERS.
901530 | LEVELS (SURVEYING).
901540 | PHOTOGRAMMETRICAL SURVEYING INSTRUMENTS AND APPLIANCES.
901580 | SURVEYING INSTRUMENTS AND APPLIANCES, NESOI, HYDROGRAPHIC, OCEANOGRAPHIC, HYDROLOGICAL, METEOROLOGICAL OR GEOPHYSICAL INSTRUMENTS AND APPLIANCES NESOI.
901590 | PARTS ETC. FOR RANGEFINDERS AND SURVEYING, HYDROGRAPHIC, OCEAN OGRAPHIC, HYDROLOGICAL, METEOROLOGICAL OR GEOPHYSICAL INSTRUMENTS AND APPLIANCES NESOI.
901600 | BALANCES OF A SENSITIVITY OF 5 CG OR BETTER, WITH OR WITHOUT WEIGHTS; PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF.
901710 | DRAFTING TABLES AND MACHINES, WHETHER OR NOT AUTOMATIC.
901720 | DRAWING, MARKING-OUT OR MATHEMATICAL CALCULATING INSTRUMENTS, EXCEPT DRAFTING TABLES AND MACHINES.
901730 | MICROMETERS, CALIPERS AND GAUGES.
901780 | INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASURING LENGTH, FOR USE IN THE HAND, NESOI.
901790 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR DRAWING, MARKING-OUT OR MATHEMATICAL CALCULATING INSTRUMENTS AND INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASURING LENGTH FOR USE IN THE HAND, NESOI.
901811 | ELECTROCARDIOGRAPHS, AND PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF.
901812 | ULTRASONIC SCANNING APPARATUS.
901813 | MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING APPARATUS.
901814 | SCINTIGRAPHIC APPARATUS.
901819 | ELECTRO-DIAGNOSTIC APPARATUS (AND APPARATUS FOR FUNCTIONAL EXPLORATORY EXAMINATION OR FOR CHECKING PHYSIOLOGICAL PARAMETERS) NESOI, AND PARTS, ETC.
901820 | ULTRAVIOLET OR INFRARED RAY APPARATUS, AND PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF.
901831 | SYRINGES, WITH OR WITHOUT NEEDLES; PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF.
901832 | TUBULAR METAL NEEDLES AND NEEDLES FOR SUTURES AND PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF.
901839 | MEDICAL ETC., NEEDLES NESOI, CATHETERS, CANNULAE AND THE LIKE; PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEROF.
901841 | DENTAL DRILL ENGINES, WHETHER OR NOT COMBINED ON A SINGLE BASE WITH OTHER DENTAL EQUIPMENT, AND PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF.
901849 | INSTRUMENTS AND APPLIANCES USED IN DENTAL SCIENCES, NESOI, AND PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF.
901850 | OPHTHALMIC INSTRUMENTS AND APPLIANCES, NESOI, AND PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF.
901890 | INSTRUMENTS AND APPLIANCES FOR MEDICAL, SURGICAL OR VETERINARY SCIENCES, NESOI, AND PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF.
901910 | MECHANO-THERAPY APPLIANCES; MASSAGE APPARATUS; PSYCHOLOGICAL APTITUDE-TESTING APPARATUS; PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF.
901920 | OZONE THERAPY, OXYGEN THERAPY, AEROSOL THERAPY, ARTIFICAL RESPIRATION OR OTHER THERAPEUTIC RESPIRATION APPARATUS; PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF.
902000 | BREATHING APPLIANCES NESOI AND GAS MASKS HAVING MECHANICAL PARTS AND/OR REPLACEABLE FILTERS; PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF.
902110 | ORTHOPEDIC OR FRACTURE APPLIANCES; PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF.
902121 | ARTIFICIAL TEETH; AND PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF.
902129 | DENTAL FITTINGS; AND PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF.
902131 | ARTIFICIAL JOINTS AND PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF.
902139 | ARTIFICIAL JOINTS AND PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF, NESOI.
902140 | HEARING AIDS.
902150 | PACEMAKERS FOR STIMULATING HEART MUSCLES.
902190 | ARTIFICIAL PARTS OF THE BODY NESOI; AND PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF.
902212 | COMPUTED TOMOGRAPHY APPARATUS.
902213 | APPARATUS BASE ON THE USE OF X-RAYS FOR DENTAL, USES, INCLUDING RADIOGRAPHY OR RADIOTHERAPY APPARATUS.
902214 | APPARATUS BASED ON THE USE OF X-RAYS FOR MEDICAL, SURGICAL, OR VETERINARY USES, INCLUDING RADIOGRAPHY OR RADIOTHERAPY APPARATUS, NESOI.
902219 | APPARATUS BASED ON THE USE OF X-RAYS FOR USES OTHER THAN MEDICAL, SURGICAL, DENTAL OR VETERINARY, INCLUDING INDUSTRIAL X-RAY APPARATUS.
902221 | APPARATUS BASED ON THE USE OF ALPHA, BETA OR GAMMA RADIATIONS FOR MEDICAL, SURGICAL, DENTAL OR VETERINARY USES.
902229 | APPARATUS BASED ON THE USE OF ALPHA, BETA OR GAMMA RADIATIONS FOR OTHER THAN MEDICAL, SURGICAL, DENTAL OR VETERINARY USES.
902230 | X-RAY TUBES.
902290 | X-RAY GENERATORS, HIGH TENSION GENERATORS, CONTROL PANELS AND DESKS, SCREENS, EXAMINATION OR TREATMENT TABLES, CHAIRS ETC.; PARTS AND ACCESSORIES.
902300 | INSTRUMENTS, APPARATUS AND MODELS, DESIGNED FOR DEMONSTRATIONAL PURPOSES, UNSUITABLE FOR OTHER USES, AND PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF.
902410 | MACHINES AND APPLIANCES FOR TESTING METALS.
902480 | MACHINES AND APPLIANCES NESOI FOR TESTING THE HARDNESS, STRENGTH, COMPRESSIBILITY, ELASTICITY OR OTHER SPECIFIC PROPERTIES OF MATERIALS.
902490 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES OF MACHINES OR APPLIANCES FOR TESTING HARDNESS, STRENGTH, COMPRESSIBILITY, ELASTICITY OR OTHER SPECIFIC PROPERTIES OF MATERIALS.
902511 | THERMOMETERS AND PYROMETERS, NOT COMBINED WITH OTHER INSTRUMENTS, LIQUID-FILLED, FOR DIRECT READING.
902519 | THERMOMETERS AND PYROMETERS, NOT COMBINED WITH OTHER INSTRUMENTS, NESOI.
902580 | HYDROMETERS AND SIMILAR FLOATING INSTRUMENTS, HYGROMETERS AND PSYCHROMETERS, NESOI.
902590 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR HYDROMETERS AND SIMILAR FLOATING INSTRUMENTS, THERMOMETERS, PYROMETERS, BAROMETERS, HYGROMETERS AND PSYCHROMETERS.
902610 | INSTRUMENTS AND APPARATUS FOR MEASURING OR CHECKING THE FLOW OR LEVEL OF LIQUIDS, NESOI.
902620 | INSTRUMENTS AND APPARATUS FOR MEASURING OR CHECKING PRESSURE OF LIQUIDS OR GASES, NESOI.
902680 | INSTRUMENTS AND APPARATUS FOR MEASURING OR CHECKING OTHER VARIABLES OF LIQUIDS OR GASES, NESOI.
902690 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR INSTRUMENTS AND APPARATUS FOR MEASURING OR CHECKING THE FLOW, LEVEL, PRESSURE OR OTHER VARIABLES OF LIQUIDS OR GASES, NESOI.
902710 | GAS OR SMOKE ANALYSIS APPARATUS.
902720 | CHROMATOGRAPHS AND ELECTROPHORESIS INSTRUMENTS.
902730 | SPECTROMETERS, SPECTROPHOTOMETERS AND SPECTROGRAPHS USING OPTICAL RADIATIONS (ULTRAVIOLET, VISIBLE, INFRARED).
902750 | INSTRUMENTS AND APPARATUS FOR PHYSICAL OR CHEMICAL ANALYSIS USING OPTICAL RADIATIONS (ULTRAVIOLET, VISIBLE, INFRARED), NESOI.
902781 | INSTRUMENTS AND APPARATUS FOR PHYSICAL OR CHEMICAL ANALYSIS, NESOI.
902789 | INSTRUMENTS AND APPARATUS FOR PHYSICAL OR CHEMICAL ANALYSIS, NESOI.
902790 | MICROTOMES; PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR INSTRUMENTS AND APPARATUS FOR PHYSICAL OR CHEMICAL ANALYSIS.
902810 | GAS SUPPLY OR PRODUCTION METERS.
902820 | LIQUID SUPPLY OR PRODUCTION METERS.
902830 | ELECTRICITY SUPPLY OR PRODUCTION METERS.
902890 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES OF GAS, LIQUID OR ELECTRICITY SUPPLY OR PRODUCTION METERS, INCLUDING CALIBRATING METERS THEREFOR.
902910 | REVOLUTION COUNTERS, PRODUCTION COUNTERS, TAXIMETERS, ODOMETERS, PEDOMETERS AND THE LIKE.
902920 | SPEEDOMETERS AND TACHOMETERS; STROBOSCOPES.
902990 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR REVOLUTION COUNTERS, PRODUCTION COUNTERS, TAXIMETERS, ODOMETERS, PEDOMETERS ETC., SPEEDOMETERS, TACHOMETERS AND STROBOSOPES.
903010 | INSTRUMENTS AND APPARATUS FOR MEASURING OR DETECTING IONIZING RADIATIONS.
903020 | CATHODE-RAY OSCILLOSCOPES AND CATHODE-RAY OSCILLOGRAPHS.
903031 | MULTIMETERS, WITHOUT A RECORDING DEVICE.
903032 | MULTIMETERS WITH A RECORDING DEVICE.
903033 | INSTRUMENTS AND APPARATUS, FOR MEASURING OR CHECKING VOLTAGE, CURRENT, RESISTANCE OR POWER, WITHOUT A RECORDING DEVICE, NESOI.
903039 | INSTRUMENTS AND APPARATUS FOR MEASURING OR CHECKING VOLTAGE, CURRENT, RESISTANCE OR POWER, WITHOUT A RECORDING DEVICE (EXCLUDING MULTIMETERS), NESOI.
903040 | INSTRUMENTS AND APPARATUS NESOI, SPECIALLY DESIGNED FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS (FOR EXAMPLE, CROSS-TALK METERS, GAIN MEASURING INSTRUMENTS ETC.).
903082 | INST & APP W/A RECORDING DEVICE DESIGNED TO CHECK OR MEASURE SEMICONDUCTOR WAFERS & DEVICES (SUCH AS PROBE TESTERS, RESISTIVITY CHECKERS, LOGIC ANALYZERS.
903084 | INSTRUMENTS AND APPARATUS, WITH A RECORDING DEVICE, NESOI.
903089 | INSTRUMENTS AND APPARATUS NESOI, WITHOUT A RECORDING DEVICE FOR MEASURING OR CHECKING ELECTRICAL QUANTITIES.
903090 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES OF INSTRUMENTS AND APPARATUS FOR MEASURING, CHECKING OR DETECTING ELECTRICAL QUANTITIES, OR IONIZING RADIATIONS, NESOI.
903110 | MEASURING OR CHECKING MACHINES FOR BALANCING MECHANICAL PARTS, NESOI.
903120 | TEST BENCHES.
903141 | OPTICAL INSTRUMENTS FOR INSPECTING SEMICONDUCTOR WAFERS OR DEVICES OR FOR INSPECTING PHOTOMASKS OR RETICLES USED IN MANUFG SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES.
903149 | MEASURING OR CHECKING INSTRUMENTS, APPLIANCES AND MACHINES, N.E.S.O.I.
903180 | MEASURING OR CHECKING INSTRUMENTS, APPLIANCES AND MACHINES, NESOI.
903190 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR MEASURING OR CHECKING INSTRUMENTS, APPLIANCES AND MACHINES, NESOI; PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR PROFILE PROJECTORS.
903210 | THERMOSTATS.
903220 | MANOSTATS.
903281 | HYDRAULIC OR PNEUMATIC AUTOMATIC REGULATING OR CONTROLLING INSTRUMENTS AND APPARATUS.
903289 | AUTOMATIC REGULATING OR CONTROLLING INSTRUMENTS AND APPARATUS (EXCLUDING THERMOSTATS, MANOSTATS AND HYDRAULIC TYPES), NESOI.
903290 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES OF AUTOMATIC REGULATING OR CONTROLLING INSTRUMENTS AND APPARATUS.
903300 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES (NOT SPECIFIED OR INCLUDED ELSEWHERE IN THIS CHAPTER) FOR MACHINES, APPLIANCES, INSTRUMENTS OR APPARATUS OF CHAPTER 90.
930200 | REVOLVERS AND PISTOLS, DESIGNED TO FIRE LIVE AMMUNITION.
930310 | MUZZLE-LOADING FIREARMS.
930320 | SPORTING, HUNTING OR TARGET-SHOOTING SHOTGUNS, INCLUDING COMBINATION SHOTGUN-RIFLES, EXCEPT MUZZLE-LOADING FIREARMS.
930330 | SPORTING, HUNTING OR TARGET-SHOOTING RIFLES, EXCEPT MUZZLE-LOADING FIREARMS AND COMBINATION SHOTGUN-RIFLES.
930390 | DEVICES DESIGNED TO PROJECT ONLY SIGNAL FLARES; PISTOLS AND REVOLVERS FOR FIRING BLANK AMMUNITION; CAPTIVE-BOLT HUMANE KILLERS; LINE-THROWING GUNS.
930400 | ARMS NESOI (INCLUDING SPRING, AIR OR GAS GUNS AND PISTOLS, BUT EXCLUDING SWORDS, BAYONETS AND SIMILAR ARMS).
930510 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES OF REVOLVERS OR PISTOLS.
930520 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES OF SHOTGUNS OR RIFLES OF HEADING 9303.
930599 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES OF ARTICLES OF HEADINGS 9303 TO 9304, NESOI.
930621 | SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES.
930629 | AIR GUN PELLETS AND PARTS OF SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES.
930630 | CARTRIDGES AND PARTS THEREOF, NESOI.
930690 | BOMBS, GRENADES, TORPEDOES, MINES, MISSILES AND SIMILAR MUNITIONS OF WAR AND PARTS THEREOF; OTHER AMMUNITION AND PROJECTILES AND PARTS THEREOF, NESOI.
930700 | SWORDS, CUTLASSES, BAYONETS, LANCES AND SIMILAR ARMS AND PARTS THEREOF AND SCABBARDS AND SHEATHS THEREFOR.
940110 | SEATS OF A KIND USED FOR AIRCRAFT.
940120 | SEATS OF A KIND USED FOR MOTOR VEHICLES.
940330 | WOODEN FURNITURE (EXCEPT SEATS) OF A KIND USED IN OFFICES.
940610 | PREFABRICATED BUILDINGS OF WOOD.
940620 | PREFABRICATED BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN OF WOOD.
940690 | PREFABRICATED BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN OF WOOD.
950300 | TRICYCLES, SCOOTERS, PEDAL CARS AND SIMILAR WHEELED TOYS; DOLLS' CARRIAGES; DOLLS; OTHER TOYS; ETC.
960350 | BRUSHES NESOI, CONSTITUTING PARTS OF MACHINES, APPLIANCES OR VEHICLES.
960390 | HAND-OPERATED MECHANICAL (NOT MOTORIZED) FLOOR SWEEPERS, MOPS AND FEATHER DUSTERS; PREPARED KNOTS AND TUFTS FOR BROOM OR BRUSH MAKING, NESOI.
960610 | PRESS-FASTENERS, SNAP-FASTENERS AND PRESS-STUDS AND PARTS THEREFOR.
960621 | BUTTONS OF PLASTICS, NOT COVERED WITH TEXTILE MATERIAL.
960622 | BUTTONS OF BASE METAL, NOT COVERED WITH TEXTILE MATERIAL.
960629 | BUTTONS, NESOI.
960630 | BUTTONS MOLDS AND OTHER PARTS OF BUTTONS; BUTTON BLANKS.
960891 | PEN NIBS AND NIB POINTS.
961220 | INK-PADS, WHETHER OR NOT INKED.
[88 FR 12183, Feb. 27, 2023, as amended at 88 FR 33430, May 23, 2023; 89 FR 4812, Jan. 25, 2024; 89 FR 51665, June 18, 2024]

Supplement No. 5 to Part 746—'Luxury Goods' Sanctions for Russia and Belarus Pursuant to § 746.8(a)(7)

(a) The source for the Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS)-6 codes and descriptions in this list is the United States International Trade Commission (USITC)'s Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (2023). The items described in supplement no. 5 to part 746 include any modified or designed “components,” “parts,” “accessories,” and “attachments” therefor regardless of the HTS Code or HTS Description of the “components,” “parts,” “accessories,” and “attachments,” apart from any “part” or minor “component” that is a fastener (e.g., screw, bolt, nut, nut plate, stud, insert, clip, rivet, pin), washer, spacer, insulator, grommet, bushing, spring, wire, or solder. The exclusion of fasteners from this control does not apply to fasteners that are designated under an HTS Code under this supplement. Although generally fasteners (e.g., screws, bolts, nuts, nut plates, studs, inserts, clips, rivets, pins), and washers, spacers, insulators, grommets, bushings, springs, wires, and solder are excluded from the scope of this supplement, see part 744 of the EAR for license requirements for Russia and Belarus that apply to all items “subject to the EAR,” e.g., § 744.21 and the Entity List license requirements, which in most cases extend to all items “subject to the EAR.” This supplement includes two columns consisting of the HTS Code and HTS Description and Per Unit Wholesale Price in the U.S. if applicable to assist exporters, reexporters, and transferors in identifying the products in this supplement. For information on HTS codes in general, you may contact a local import specialist at U.S. Customs and Border Protection at the nearest port. HTS-6 Codes 590500, 840710, 840721, 840729, 840731, 840732, 840733, 840734, 840790, 840810, 840820, 840890, 840910, 840991, 840999, 841111, 841112, 841121, 841122, 841181, 841182, 841191, 841199, 841229, 841290, 841451, 841459, 841460, 841510, 841810, 841821, 841829, 841830, 841840, 841981, 842211, 842310, 842860, 843139, 844312, 844331, 844332, 844339, 845011, 845012, 845019, 845121, 845210, 847010, 847021, 847029, 847030, 847130, 847141, 847149, 847150, 847160, 847170, 847180, 847190, 847290, 847960, 848310, 848320, 848330, 848340, 848350, 848360, 848390, 850811, 850819, 850860, 850980, 851110, 851120, 851130, 851140, 851150, 851180, 851190, 851220, 851230, 851240, 851631, 851650, 851660, 851671, 851672, 851679, 851711, 851713, 851718, 851761, 851762, 851769, 851920, 851930, 851981, 851989, 852110, 852190, 852691, 852712, 852713, 852719, 852721, 852729, 852791, 852792, 852799, 852871, 852872, 852910, 853110, 854370, 854430, 870310, 870321, 870322, 870323, 870324, 870331, 870332, 870333, 870340, 870350, 870360, 870370, 870380, 870390, and 902000 are listed in both this supplement and supplement no. 4 to this part, so exporters, reexporters, and transferors must comply with the license requirements under both § 746.8(a)(5) and (7) as applicable.
(b) The items identified in the HTS-6 Code column of this supplement are subject to the license requirement under § 746.8(a)(7). The other column—HTS Description—is intended to assist exporters with their AES filing responsibilities. The license requirements extend to HTS Codes at the 8 and 10 digit level (HTS-8 and HTS-10 codes, respectively) when such longer HTS Codes begin with the HTS-6 Codes as their first 6 numbers. When a description mentions parts related to one or more numerical headings, this means parts related to any HS codes that begin with the digits in the range specified. For example, 'headings 8524 to 8528' means any HS code, HTS code, or Schedule B which has 8524, 8525, 8526, 8527, or 8528 as the first four digits.
HTS-6 Code | HTS-6 Description and per unit wholesale price in the U.S. if applicable
220300 | BEER MADE FROM MALT.
220410 | SPARKLING WINE OF FRESH GRAPES.
220421 | WINE OF FRESH GRAPES (OTHER THAN SPARKLING WINE) AND GRAPE MUST WITH FERMENTATION PREVENTED, ETC. BY ADDING ALCOHOL, CONTAINERS OF NOT OVER 2 LITERS.
220422 | WINE, GRAPE MUST WITH FERMENTATION PREVENTED OR ARRESTED BY THE ADDITION OF ALCOHOL IN CONTAINERS HOLDING MORE THAN 2 LITERS BUT NO MORE THAN 10 LITER.
220429 | WINE OF FRESH GRAPES (OTHER THAN SPARKLING WINE) AND GRAPE MUST WITH FERMENTATION PREVENTED, ETC. BY ADDING ALCOHOL, CONTAINERS HOLDING OVER 2 LITERS.
220430 | GRAPE MUST, PARTIALLY FERMENTED, HAVING AN ALCOHOLIC STRENGTH BY VOLUME EXCEEDING 0.5% VOL., NESOI.
220510 | VERMOUTH AND OTHER WINE OF FRESH GRAPES FLAVORED WITH PLANTS OR AROMATIC SUBSTANCES, IN CONTAINERS HOLDING 2 LITERS OR LESS.
220590 | VERMOUTH AND OTHER WINE OF FRESH GRAPES FLAVORED WITH PLANTS OR AROMATIC SUBSTANCES, IN CONTAINERS HOLDING OVER 2 LITERS.
220600 | FERMENTED BEVERAGES, NESOI (INCL CIDER, PERRY & MEAD); MIXTURES OF FERMENTED BEVERAGES & MIXTURES OF FERMENTED BEVERAGES & NON-ALCOHOL BEVERAGE NESOI.
220710 | ETHYL ALCOHOL, UNDENATURED, OF AN ALCOHOLIC STRENGTH BY VOLUME OF 80% OR HIGHER.
220820 | SPIRITS OBTAINED BY DISTILLING GRAPE WINE OR GRAPE MARC (GRAPE BRANDY).
220830 | WHISKIES.
220840 | RUM AND TAFIA.
220850 | GIN AND GENEVA.
220860 | VODKA.
220870 | LIQUEURS AND CORDIALS.
220890 | SPIRITUOUS BEVERAGES, NESOI, INCLUDING CORDIALS, LIQUEURS, KIRSHWASSER, RATAFIA AND VODKA.
240110 | TOBACCO, NOT STEMMED/STRIPPED.
240120 | TOBACCO, PARTLY OR WHOLLY STEMMED/STRIPPED.
240130 | TOBACCO REFUSE (WASTE).
240210 | CIGARS, CHEROOTS AND CIGARILLOS, CONTAINING TOBACCO.
240220 | CIGARETTES CONTAINING TOBACCO.
240290 | CIGARS, CHEROOTS, CIGARILLOS AND CIGARETTES OF TOBACCO SUBSTITUTES, NOT CONTAINING TOBACCO.
240311 | WATER PIPE TOBACCO SPECIFIED IN SUBHEADING NOTE 1 TO CHAPTER 24.
240319 | SMOKING TOBACCO, WHETHER OR NOT CONTAINING TOBACCO SUBSTITUTES IN ANY PROPORTION, OTHER THAN WATER PIPE TOBACCO.
240391 | HOMOGENIZED OR RECONSTITUTED TOBACCO.
240399 | MANUFACTURED TOBACCO AND ITS SUBSTITUTES, NESOI; TOBACCO EXTRACTS AND ESSENCES.
240411 | MANUFACTURED TOBACCO AND ITS SUBSTITUTES, NESOI; TOBACCO EXTRACTS AND ESSENCES.
240412 | CHEMICAL PRODUCTS AND PREPARATIONS OF THE CHEMICAL OR ALLIED INDUSTRIES, N.E.S.O.I.; RESIDUAL PRODUCTS OF THE CHEMICAL OR ALLIED INDUSTRIES, N.E.S.O.I.
240419 | MANUFACTURED TOBACCO AND ITS SUBSTITUTES, NESOI; TOBACCO EXTRACTS AND ESSENCES.
240491 | FOOD PREPARATIONS NESOI.
240492 | CHEMICAL PRODUCTS AND PREPARATIONS OF THE CHEMICAL OR ALLIED INDUSTRIES, N.E.S.O.I.; RESIDUAL PRODUCTS OF THE CHEMICAL OR ALLIED INDUSTRIES, N.E.S.O.I.
240499 | CHEMICAL PRODUCTS AND PREPARATIONS OF THE CHEMICAL OR ALLIED INDUSTRIES, N.E.S.O.I.; RESIDUAL PRODUCTS OF THE CHEMICAL OR ALLIED INDUSTRIES, N.E.S.O.I.
330290 | MIXTURES OF ODORIFEROUS SUBSTANCES AND MIXTURES (INCLUDING ALCOHOLIC SOLUTIONS) BASED ON ONE OR MORE OF THESE SUBSTANCES USED AS RAW MATERIALS, NESOI.
330300 | PERFUMES AND TOILET WATERS.
330410 | LIP MAKE-UP PREPARATIONS.
330420 | EYE MAKE-UP PREPARATIONS.
330491 | POWDER MAKE-UP OR SKIN CARE PREPARATIONS, INCLUDING FACE POWDER, ROUGE, BABY POWDER AND BATH POWDER.
330499 | BEAUTY OR MAKE-UP PREPARATIONS AND PREPARATIONS FOR CARE OF THE SKIN (EXCLUDING MEDICAMENTS) NESOI, INCLUDING SUNSCREENS AND SUNTAN PREPARATIONS.
330790 | DEPILATORIES AND OTHER PERFUMERY, COSMETIC OR TOILET PREPARATIONS, NESOI.
391690 | MONOFILAMENT WITH A CROSS-SECTIONAL DIMENSION OVER 1 MM, RODS, STICKS AND PROFILE SHAPES OF PLASTICS, NESOI, NOT MORE THAN SURFACE-WORKED.
392620 | ARTICLES OF APPAREL AND CLOTHING ACCESSORIES (INCLUDING GLOVES, MITTENS, AND MITTS), NESOI, OF PLASTICS.
392640 | STATUETTES AND OTHER ORNAMENTAL ARTICLES, OF PLASTICS.
392690 | ARTICLES OF PLASTICS, NESOI.
420211 | TRUNKS, SUITCASES, VANITY CASES AND SIMILAR CONTAINERS, WITH OUTER SURFACE OF LEATHER OR OF COMPOSITION LEATHER.
420212 | TRUNKS, SUITCASES, VANITY CASES AND SIMILAR CONTAINERS, WITH OUTER SURFACE OF PLASTICS OR OF TEXTILE MATERIALS.
420219 | TRUNKS, SUITCASES, VANITY CASES AND SIMILAR CONTAINERS, WITH OUTER SURFACE OF MATERIALS OTHER THAN LEATHER, PLASTICS OR TEXTILES.
420221 | HANDBAGS, WHETHER OR NOT WITH SHOULDER STRAP OR HANDLES, WITH OUTER SURFACE OF LEATHER OR OF COMPOSITION LEATHER.
420222 | HANDBAGS, WHETHER OR NOT WITH SHOULDER STRAP OR HANDLES, WITH OUTER SURFACE OF PLASTIC SHEETING OR OF TEXTILE MATERIALS.
420229 | HANDBAGS, WHETHER OR NOT WITH SHOULDER STRAP OR HANDLES, WITH OUTER SURFACE OF MATERIALS NESOI.
420231 | ARTICLES NORMALLY CARRIED IN THE POCKET OR HANDBAG, WITH OUTER SURFACE OF LEATHER OR OF COMPOSITION LEATHER.
420232 | ARTICLES NORMALLY CARRIED IN THE POCKET OR HANDBAG, WITH OUTER SURFACE OF SHEETING OF PLASTICS OR OF TEXTILE MATERIALS.
420239 | ARTICLES NORMALLY CARRIED IN THE POCKET OR HANDBAG, WITH OUTER SURFACE OF MATERIALS NESOI.
420291 | CONTAINERS, BAGS, BOXES, CASES, SATCHELS ETC. WITH OUTER SURFACE OF LEATHER OR OF COMPOSITION LEATHER, NESOI.
420299 | CONTAINER BAGS, BOXES, CASES AND SATCHELS NESOI, WITH OUTER SURFACE OF MATERIALS NESOI.
420340 | CLOTHING ACCESSORIES NESOI, OF LEATHER OR OF COMPOSITION LEATHER.
430110 | MINK FURSKINS, RAW, WHOLE, WITH OR WITHOUT HEAD, TAIL OR PAWS.
430130 | ASTRAKHAN, BROADTAIL, CARACUL, PERSIAN AND SIMILAR LAMB, INDIAN, CHINESE, MONGOLIAN OR TIBETAN LAMB, FURSKINS, RAW, WHOLE, WITH OR WITHOUT HEAD, ETC.
430160 | FOX FURSKINS, RAW, WHOLE, WITH OR WITHOUT HEAD, TAIL OR PAWS.
430180 | FURSKINS NESOI, RAW, WHOLE, WITH OR WITHOUT HEAD, TAIL OR PAWS.
430190 | HEADS, TAILS, PAWS AND OTHER PIECES OR CUTTINGS, OF FURSKINS, RAW, SUITABLE FOR FURRIERS' USE.
430211 | MINK FURSKINS, WHOLE, WITH OR WITHOUT HEAD, TAIL OR PAWS, TANNED OR DRESSED, NOT ASSEMBLED.
430219 | FURSKINS NESOI, WHOLE, WITH OR WITHOUT HEAD, TAIL OR PAWS, TANNED OR DRESSED, NOT ASSEMBLED.
430220 | FURSKIN HEADS, TAILS, PAWS AND OTHER PIECES OR CUTTINGS, TANNED OR DRESSED, NOT ASSEMBLED.
430230 | FURSKINS, WHOLE AND PIECES OR CUTTINGS THEREOF, TANNED OR DRESSED, ASSEMBLED.
430310 | ARTICLES OF APPAREL AND CLOTHING ACCESSORIES OF FURSKINS.
430390 | ARTICLES OF FURSKINS, NESOI.
430400 | ARTIFICIAL FUR AND ARTICLES THEREOF.
442011 | STATUETTES AND OTHER ORNAMENTS, OF WOOD.
442019 | STATUETTES AND OTHER ORNAMENTS, OF WOOD.
490700 | UNUSED POSTAGE, STAMP-IMPRESSED PAPER, CHECK FORMS, BANK NOTES, STOCK, SHARE OR BOND CERTIFICATES AND SIMILAR DOCUMENTS OF TITLE, ETC.
500100 | SILKWORM COCOONS SUITABLE FOR REELING, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
500200 | RAW SILK (NOT THROWN), AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
500300 | SILK WASTE (INCLUDING COCOONS UNSUITABLE FOR REELING, YARN WASTE AND GARNETTED STOCK), AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
500400 | SILK YARN (OTHER THAN SPUN FROM SILK WASTE) NOT PUT UP FOR RETAIL SALE, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
500500 | YARN SPUN FROM SILK WASTE, NOT PUT UP FOR RETAIL SALE, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
500600 | SILK YARN AND YARN SPUN FROM SILK WASTE, PUT UP FOR RETAIL SALE; SILK WORM GUT, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
500710 | WOVEN FABRICS OF NOIL SILK, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
500720 | WOVEN FABRICS CONTAINING 85% OR MORE BY WEIGHT OF SILK OR SILK WASTE OTHER THAN NOIL SILK, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
500790 | WOVEN FABRICS OF SILK OR SILK WASTE, NESOI, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
560394 | NONWOVENS, WHETHER OR NOT IMPREGNATED, COATED, COVERED OR LAMINATED, (NOT OF MANMADE FILAMENTS), WEIGHING MORE THAN 150 G/M2, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
570110 | CARPETS AND OTHER TEXTILE FLOOR COVERINGS, KNOTTED (WHETHER OR NOT MADE-UP), OF WOOL OR FINE ANIMAL HAIR, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
570190 | CARPETS AND OTHER TEXTILE FLOOR COVERINGS, KNOTTED (WHETHER OR NOT MADE UP), OF TEXTILE MATERIALS, OTHER THAN WOOL OR FINE ANIMAL HAIR, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
570210 | KELEM, SCHUMACKS, KARAMANIE, AND SIMILAR HAND-WOVEN RUGS, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
570220 | FLOOR COVERINGS OF COCONUT FIBERS (COIR), WOVEN, NOT TUFTED OR FLOCKED, WHETHER OR NOT MADE-UP, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
570231 | CARPETS AND OTHER TEXTILE FLOOR COVERINGS, WOVEN, NOT TUFTED OR FLOCKED, NESOI, OF PILE CONSTRUCTION, NOT MADE-UP, OF WOOL OR FINE ANIMAL HAIR, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
570232 | CARPETS AND OTHER TEXTILE FLOOR COVERINGS, WOVEN, NOT TUFTED OR FLOCKED, NESOI, OF PILE CONSTRUCTION, NOT MADE-UP, OF MANMADE TEXTILE MATERIALS, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
570239 | CARPETS AND OTHER TEXTILE FLOOR COVERINGS, WOVEN, NOT TUFTED OR FLOCKED, NESOI, OF PILE CONSTRUCTION, NOT MADE-UP, OF TEXTILE MATERIALS NESOI, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
570241 | CARPETS AND OTHER TEXTILE FLOOR COVERINGS, WOVEN, NOT TUFTED OR FLOCKED, NESOI, OF PILE CONSTRUCTION, MADE-UP, OF WOOL OR FINE ANIMAL HAIR, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
570242 | CARPETS AND OTHER TEXTILE FLOOR COVERINGS, WOVEN, NOT TUFTED OR FLOCKED, NESOI, OF PILE CONSTRUCTION, MADE-UP, OF MANMADE TEXTILE MATERIALS, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
570249 | CARPETS AND OTHER TEXTILE FLOOR COVERINGS, WOVEN, NOT TUFTED OR FLOCKED, NESOI, OF PILE CONSTRUCTION, MADE-UP, OF TEXTILE MATERIALS NESOI, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
570250 | CARPETS AND OTHER TEXTILE FLOOR COVERINGS, WOVEN, NOT TUFTED OR FLOCKED, NOT OF PILE CONSTRUCTION, NOT MADE-UP, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
570291 | CARPETS AND OTHER TEXTILE FLOOR COVERINGS, WOVEN, NOT TUFTED OR FLOCKED, NESOI, NOT OF PILE CONSTRUCTION, MADE-UP, OF WOOL OR FINE ANIMAL HAIR, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
570292 | CARPETS AND OTHER TEXTILE FLOOR COVERINGS, WOVEN, NOT TUFTED OR FLOCKED, NESOI, NOT OF PILE CONSTRUCTION, MADE-UP, OF MANMADE TEXTILE MATERIALS, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
570299 | CARPETS AND OTHER TEXTILE FLOOR COVERINGS, WOVEN, NOT TUFTED OR FLOCKED, NESOI, NOT OF PILE CONSTRUCTION, MADE-UP, OF TEXTILE MATERIALS NESOI, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
570310 | CARPETS AND OTHER TEXTILE FLOOR COVERINGS, TUFTED (WHETHER OR NOT MADE-UP), OF WOOL OR FINE ANIMAL HAIR, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
570321 | CARPETS AND OTHER TEXTILE FLOOR COVERINGS, TUFTED (WHETHER OR NOT MADE-UP), OF NYLON OR OTHER POLYAMIDES, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
570329 | CARPETS AND OTHER TEXTILE FLOOR COVERINGS, TUFTED (WHETHER OR NOT MADE-UP), OF NYLON OR OTHER POLYAMIDES, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
570331 | CARPETS AND OTHER TEXTILE FLOOR COVERINGS, TUFTED (WHETHER OR NOT MADE-UP), OF MANMADE TEXTILE MATERIALS OTHER THAN NYLON OR OTHER POLYAMIDES, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
570339 | CARPETS AND OTHER TEXTILE FLOOR COVERINGS, TUFTED (WHETHER OR NOT MADE-UP), OF MANMADE TEXTILE MATERIALS OTHER THAN NYLON OR OTHER POLYAMIDES, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
570390 | CARPETS AND OTHER TEXTILE FLOOR COVERINGS, TUFTED (WHETHER OR NOT MADE-UP), OF TEXTILE MATERIALS NESOI, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
570410 | TEXTILE FLOOR COVERINGS, OF FELT, NOT TUFTED OR FLOCKED, TILES HAVING A MAXIMUM SURFACE AREA OF 0.30 M2, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
570420 | TEXTILE FLOOR COVERINGS, OF FELT, NOT TUFTED OR FLOCKED, OTHER THAN TILES HAVING A MAXIMUM SURFACE AREA EXCEEDING 0.3M2 NOT EXC 1 M2, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
570490 | CARPETS AND OTHER TEXTILE FLOOR COVERINGS, OF FELT, NOT TUFTED OR FLOCKED (WHETHER OR NOT MADE-UP), OTHER THAN TILES WITH A MAXIMUM AREA OF 0.30 M2, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
570500 | CARPETS AND OTHER TEXTILE FLOOR COVERINGS (WHETHER OR NOT MADE-UP), NESOI, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
580500 | HANDWOVEN TAPESTRIES SIMILAR TO GOBELINS, FLANDERS, AUBUSSON OR BEAUVAIS AND NEEDLEWORKED TAPESTRIES (PETIT POINT, CROSS-STITCH ETC.), MADE-UP OR NOT.
580639 | NARROW WOVEN FABRICS NESOI, NOT OVER 30 CM IN WIDTH, OF TEXTILE MATERIALS NESOI.
590500 | TEXTILE WALL COVERINGS.
611030 | SWEATERS, PULLOVERS, SWEATSHIRTS, VESTS AND SIMILAR ARTICLES OF MANMADE FIBERS, KNITTED OR CROCHETED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
611211 | TRACK SUITS, WARM-UP SUITS AND JOGGING SUITS OF COTTON, KNITTED OR CROCHETED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
611212 | TRACK SUITS, WARM-UP SUITS AND JOGGING SUITS OF SYNTHETIC FIBERS, KNITTED OR CROCHETED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
611219 | TRACK SUITS, WARM-UP SUITS AND JOGGING SUITS OF TEXTILE MATERIALS NESOI, KNITTED OR CROCHETED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
611220 | SKI SUITS, KNITTED OR CROCHETED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
611231 | MEN'S OR BOYS' SWIMWEAR OF SYNTHETIC FIBERS, KNITTED OR CROCHETED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
611239 | MEN'S OR BOYS' SWIMWEAR OF TEXTILE MATERIALS NESOI, KNITTED OR CROCHETED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
611241 | WOMEN'S OR GIRLS' SWIMWEAR OF SYNTHETIC FIBERS, KNITTED OR CROCHETED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
611249 | WOMEN'S OR GIRLS' SWIMWEAR OF TEXTILE MATERIALS NESOI, KNITTED OR CROCHETED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
620610 | WOMEN'S OR GIRLS' BLOUSES, SHIRTS AND SHIRT-BLOUSES OF SILK OR SILK WASTE, NOT KNITTED OR CROCHETED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
621111 | MEN'S OR BOYS' SWIMWEAR, NOT KNITTED OR CROCHETED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
621112 | WOMEN'S OR GIRLS' SWIMWEAR, NOT KNITTED OR CROCHETED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
621120 | SKI-SUITS, NOT KNITTED OR CROCHETED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
621390 | HANDKERCHIEFS, OF TEXTILE MATERIALS NESOI, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
621410 | SHAWLS, SCARVES, MUFFLERS, MANTILLAS, VEILS AND THE LIKE, OF SILK OR SILK WASTE, NOT KNITTED OR CROCHETED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
621510 | TIES, BOW TIES AND CRAVATS, OF SILK OR SILK WASTE, NOT KNITTED OR CROCHETED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
630120 | BLANKETS (OTHER THAN ELECTRIC BLANKETS) AND TRAVELING RUGS, OF WOOL OR FINE ANIMAL HAIR, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
630130 | BLANKETS (OTHER THAN ELECTRIC BLANKETS) AND TRAVELING RUGS, OF COTTON, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
630140 | BLANKETS (OTHER THAN ELECTRIC BLANKETS) AND TRAVELING RUGS, OF SYNTHETIC FIBERS, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
630190 | BLANKETS (OTHER THAN ELECTRIC BLANKETS) AND TRAVELING RUGS, OF TEXTILE MATERIALS NESOI, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
630622 | TENTS, OF SYNTHETIC FIBERS, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
630629 | TENTS, OF TEXTILE MATERIALS NESOI, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
630630 | SAILS FOR BOATS, SAILBOARDS OR LANDCRAFT, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
630690 | CAMPING GOODS MADE OF TEXTILES, OTHER THAN TENTS AND PNEUMATIC MATTRESSES, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
630720 | LIFE JACKETS AND LIFE BELTS, OF TEXTILE MATERIALS, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
630800 | NEEDLECRAFT SETS, OF WOVEN FABRIC AND YARN, WITH OR WITHOUT ACCESSORIES, FOR MAKING RUGS, TAPESTRIES OR EMBROIDERED ARTICLES, PACKAGED FOR RETAIL SALE, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
640192 | WATERPROOF FOOTWEAR WITH BONDED OR CEMENTED OUTER SOLES AND UPPERS OF RUBBER OR PLASTICS NESOI, COVERING THE ANKLE BUT NOT COVERING THE KNEE, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
640212 | OTHER FOOTWEAR WITH OUTER SOLES AND UPPERS OF RUBBER OR PLASTICS: SPORTS FOOTWEAR: SKI-BOOTS AND CROSS-COUNTRY SKI FOOTWEAR AND SNOWBOARD BOOTS, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
640219 | SPORTS FOOTWEAR, OTHER THAN SKI-BOOTS AND CROSS-COUNTRY SKI FOOTWEAR, WITH OUTER SOLES AND UPPERS OF RUBBER OR PLASTICS NESOI, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
640299 | FOOTWEAR, WITH OUTER SOLES AND UPPERS OF RUBBER OR PLASTICS NESOI, NOT COVERING THE ANKLE, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
640312 | FOOTWEAR WITH UPPERS OF LEATHER, SKI-BOOTS AND CROSS-COUNTRY SKI FOOTWEAR AND SNOWBOARD BOOTS, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
640319 | SPORTS FOOTWEAR (OTHER THAN SKI FOOTWEAR) NESOI, WITH OUTER SOLES OF RUBBER, PLASTICS, LEATHER OR COMPOSITION LEATHER AND UPPERS OF LEATHER, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
640320 | FOOTWEAR, WITH OUTER SOLES OF LEATHER AND UPPERS WHICH CONSIST OF LEATHER STRAPS ACROSS THE INSTEP AND AROUND THE BIG TOE, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
640340 | FOOTWEAR, WITH OUTER SOLES OF RUBBER, PLASTICS, LEATHER OR COMPOSITION LEATHER AND UPPERS OF LEATHER, INCORPORATING A PROTECTIVE METAL TOE-CAP, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
640351 | FOOTWEAR, WITH OUTER SOLES AND UPPERS OF LEATHER NESOI, COVERING THE ANKLE, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
640359 | FOOTWEAR, WITH OUTER SOLES AND UPPERS OF LEATHER NESOI, NOT COVERING THE ANKLE, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
640391 | FOOTWEAR, WITH OUTER SOLES OF RUBBER, PLASTICS OR COMPOSITION LEATHER AND UPPERS OF LEATHER NESOI, COVERING THE ANKLE, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
640399 | FOOTWEAR, WITH OUTER SOLES OF RUBBER, PLASTICS OR COMPOSITION LEATHER AND UPPERS OF LEATHER NESOI, NOT COVERING THE ANKLE, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
640411 | SPORTS FOOTWEAR, INCLUDING TENNIS SHOES, BASKETBALL SHOES AND GYM SHOES, WITH OUTER SOLES OF RUBBER OR PLASTICS AND UPPERS OF TEXTILE MATERIALS, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
640420 | FOOTWEAR, WITH OUTER SOLES OF LEATHER OR COMPOSITION LEATHER AND UPPERS OF TEXTILE MATERIALS, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
640510 | FOOTWEAR NESOI, WITH UPPERS OF LEATHER OR COMPOSITION LEATHER, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
650610 | SAFETY (INCLUDING SPORTS) HEADGEAR, WHETHER OR NOT LINED OR TRIMMED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
650699 | HEADGEAR NESOI, WHETHER OR NOT LINED OR TRIMMED, OF MATERIALS NESOI, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
670100 | SKINS AND OTHER PARTS OF BIRDS WITH THEIR FEATHERS OR DOWN, BLEACHED, DYED OR PROCESSED AND ARTICLES OF FEATHERS OR DOWN NESOI
691110 | CERAMIC TABLEWARE AND KITCHENWARE, OF PORCELAIN OR CHINA, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
691190 | CERAMIC HOUSEHOLD AND TOILET ARTICLES NESOI, OF PORCELAIN OR CHINA, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
691310 | CERAMIC STATUETTES AND OTHER ORNAMENTAL ARTICLES, OF PORCELAIN OR CHINA, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
691390 | CERAMIC STATUETTES AND OTHER ORNAMENTAL ARTICLES, OF OTHER THAN PORCELAIN OR CHINA, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
691410 | CERAMIC ARTICLES NESOI, OF PORCELAIN OR CHINA, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
691490 | CERAMIC ARTICLES NESOI, OF OTHER THAN PORCELAIN OR CHINA, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
701322 | STEMWARE DRINKING GLASSES OTHER THAN OF GLASS-CERAMICS OF LEAD CRYSTAL, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
701333 | DRINKING GLASSES, OTHER HTAN OF GLASS-CERAMICS, OF LEAD CRYSTAL, NES, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
701341 | TABLE OR KITCHEN GLASSWARE NESOI (OTHER THAN DRINKING GLASSES), OF LEAD CRYSTAL, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
701391 | GLASSWARE (INCLUDING GLASSWARE OF A KIND USED FOR TOILET, OFFICE, INDOOR DECORATION OR SIMILAR PURPOSES) NESOI, OF LEAD CRYSTAL, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
710110 | NATURAL PEARLS, NOT MOUNTED OR SET.
710121 | CULTURED PEARLS, UNWORKED.
710122 | CULTURED PEARLS, WORKED, NOT SET.
710210 | DIAMONDS, UNSORTED.
710310 | PRECIOUS STONES (OTHER THAN DIAMONDS) AND SEMIPRECIOUS STONES, UNWORKED OR SIMPLY SAWN OR ROUGHLY SHAPED.
710391 | RUBIES, SAPPHIRES AND EMERALDS, OTHERWISE WORKED.
710399 | SEMIPRECIOUS STONES, OTHERWISE WORKED.
710429 | SYNTHETIC OR RECONSTRUCTED GEMSTONES, UNWORKED OR SIMPLY SAWN OR ROUGHLY SHAPED.
710499 | SYNTHETIC OR RECONSTRUCTED PRECIOUS OR SEMIPRECIOUS STONES NESOI, OTHERWISE WORKED.
710691 | SILVER, UNWROUGHT NESOI (OTHER THAN POWDER).
710692 | SILVER, SEMIMANUFACTURED.
710812 | GOLD, NONMONETARY, UNWROUGHT NESOI (OTHER THAN POWDER).
710813 | GOLD, NONMONETARY, SEMIMANUFACTURED FORMS NESOI (OTHER THAN POWDER).
711311 | JEWELRY AND PARTS THEREOF, OF SILVER.
711319 | JEWELRY AND PARTS THEREOF, OF PRECIOUS METAL OTHER THAN SILVER.
711320 | JEWELRY AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE MATEL CLAD WITH PRECIOUS METAL.
711419 | ARTICLES OF GOLD OR PLATINUM (OTHER THAN JEWELRY), WHETHER OR NOT PLATED OR CLAD WITH OTHER PRECIOUS METAL.
711420 | ARTICLES OF GOLDSMITHS' OR SILVERSMITHS' WARES (OTHER THAN JEWELRY) AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL CLAD WITH PRECIOUS METAL.
711590 | ARTICLES NESOI, OF PRECIOUS METAL OR OF METAL CLAD WITH PRECIOUS METAL.
711610 | ARTICLES OF NATURAL OR CULTURED PEARLS.
711620 | ARTICLES OF PRECIOUS OR SEMIPRECIOUS STONES (NATURAL, SYNTHETIC OR RECONSTRUCTED).
711719 | IMITATION JEWELRY NESOI, OF BASE METAL, WHETHER OR NOT PLATED WITH PRECIOUS METAL.
711810 | COIN (OTHER THAN GOLD COIN), NOT BEING LEGAL TENDER.
711890 | COIN, NESOI.
732690 | ARTICLES OF IRON OR STEEL, NESOI, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
830621 | STATUETTES AND OTHER ORNAMENTS, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL PLATED WITH PRECIOUS METAL.
830629 | STAUETTES AND OTHER ORNAMENTS, AND PARTS THEREOF, OF BASE METAL NOT PLATED WITH PRECIOUS METAL.
840710 | AIRCRAFT SPARK-IGNITION RECIPROCATING OR ROTARY INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINES.
840721 | OUTBOARD ENGINES FOR MARINE PROPULSION.
840729 | INBOARD ENGINES FOR MARINE PROPULSION.
840731 | SPARK-IGNITION RECIPROCATING PISTON ENGINES FOR PROPULSION OF VEHICLES EXCEPT RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY STOCK, NOT OVER 50 CC CYLINDER CAPACITY.
840732 | SPARK-IGNITION RECIPROCATING PISTON ENGINES FOR PROPULSION OF VEHICLES EXCEPT RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY STOCK, OVER 50 BUT NOT OVER 250 CC CYLINDER CAPACITY.
840733 | SPARK-IGNITION RECIPROCATING PISTON ENGINES FOR PROPULSION OF VEHICLES EXCEPT RAIL OR TRAMWAY STOCK, OVER 250 BUT NOT OVER 1,000 CC CYLINDER CAPACITY.
840734 | SPARK-IGNITION RECIPROCATING PISTON ENGINES FOR PROPULSION OF VEHICLES EXCEPT RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY STOCK, OVER 1,000 CC CYLINDER CAPACITY.
840790 | SPARK-IGNITION RECIPROCATING OR ROTARY INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINES, NESOI.
840810 | MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINES (DIESEL OR SEMI-DIESEL ENGINES).
840820 | COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINES (DIESEL OR SEMI-DIESEL), FOR THE PROPULSION OF VEHICLES EXCEPT RAILWAY OR TRAMWAY STOCK.
840890 | COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINES (DIESEL OR SEMI-DIESEL ENGINES), NESOI.
840910 | PARTS FOR SPARK-IGNITION OR ROTARY INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINES OR COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINES, FOR AIRCRAFT.
840991 | PARTS FOR USE WITH SPARK-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINES (INCLUDING ROTARY ENGINES), NESOI.
840999 | PARTS FOR USE WITH COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINES, NESOI.
841111 | TURBOJETS OF A THRUST NOT EXCEEDING 25 KN.
841112 | TURBOJETS OF A THRUST EXCEEDING 25 KN.
841121 | TURBOPROPELLERS OF A POWER NOT EXCEEDING 1,100 KW.
841122 | TURBOPROPELLERS OF A POWER EXCEEDING 1,100 KW.
841181 | GAS TURBINES, EXCEPT TURBOJETS AND TURBOPROPELLERS, OF A POWER NOT EXCEEDING 5,000 KW.
841182 | GAS TURBINES, EXCEPT TURBOJETS AND TURBOPROPELLERS, OF A POWER EXCEEDING 5,000 KW.
841191 | PARTS OF TURBOJETS OR TURBOPROPELLERS.
841199 | PARTS OF GAS TURBINES, NESOI (OTHER THAN PARTS FOR TURBOJETS OR TURBOPROPELLERS).
841229 | HYDRAULIC POWER ENGINES AND MOTORS, EXCEPT LINEAR ACTING (CYLINDERS).
841290 | PARTS FOR ENGINES AND MOTORS, NESOI.
841451 | FANS, TABLE, FLOOR, WALL, WINDOW, CEILING OR ROOF, WITH SELF-CONTAINED ELECTRIC MOTOR OF AN OUTPUT NOT EXCEEDING 125 W.
841459 | FANS, NESOI.
841460 | VENTILATING OR RECYCLING HOODS INCORPORATING A FAN, HAVING A MAXIMUM HORIZINTAL SIDE NOT EXCEEDING 120 CM.
841510 | AIR CONDITIONING MACHINES, WINDOW OR WALL TYPES, SELF-CONTAINED OR “SPLIT-SYSTEM“.
841810 | COMBINED REFRIGERATOR-FREEZERS FITTED WITH SEPARATE EXTERNAL DOORS.
841821 | REFRIGERATORS, HOUSEHOLD, COMPRESSION TYPE.
841829 | REFRIGERATORS, HOUSEHOLD TYPE, NESOI.
841830 | FREEZERS, CHEST TYPE, CAPACITY NOT EXCEEDING 800 LITERS.
841840 | FREEZERS, UPRIGHT TYPE, CAPACITY NOT EXCEEDING 900 LITERS.
841981 | MACHINERY, PLANT OR EQUIPMENT FOR MAKING HOT DRINKS OR FOR COOKING OR HEATING FOOD.
842211 | DISHWASHING MACHINES, HOUSEHOLD TYPE.
842310 | PERSONAL WEIGHING MACHINES, INCLUDING BABY SCALES; HOUSEHOLD SCALES.
842860 | TELEFERICS, CHAIR LIFTS, SKI DRAGLINES; TRACTION MECHANISMS FOR FUNICULARS.
843139 | PARTS FOR LIFTING, HANDLING, LOADING OR UNLOADING MACHINERY, NESOI.
844312 | OFFSET PRINTING MACHINERY, SHEET-FED, OFFICE TYPE (SHEET SIZE NOT EXCEEDING 22X36 CM).
844331 | MACHINES WHICH PERFORM TWO OR MORE OF THE FUNCTIONS OF PRINTING, COPYING OR FAX TRANSMISSION, CAPABLE OF CONNECTING TO AN ADP MACHINE OR TO A NETWORK.
844332 | PRINTERS, COPYING MACHINES AND FACSIMILE MACHINES, NOT COMBINED, CAPABLE OF CONNECTING TO AN AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING MACHINE OR TO A NETWORK.
844339 | PRINTERS, COPYING MACHINES AND FACSIMILE MACHINES, NOT COMBINED, NESOI.
845011 | HOUSEHOLD- OR LAUNDRY-TYPE WASHING MACHINES, FULLY AUTOMATIC, WITH A DRY LINEN CAPACITY NOT EXCEEDING 10 KG.
845012 | HOUSEHOLD- OR LAUNDRY-TYPE WASHING MACHINES, NOT FULLY AUTOMATIC, WITH A BUILT-IN CENTRIFUGAL DRYER, WITH A DRY LINEN CAPACITY NOT EXCEEDING 10 KG.
845019 | HOUSEHOLD- OR LAUNDRY-TYPE WASHING MACHINES, WITH A DRY LINEN CAPACITY NOT EXCEEDING 10 KG, NESOI.
845121 | DRYING MACHINES (EXCEPT CENTRIFUGAL TYPE) FOR TEXTILE YARNS, FABRICS OR MADE UP TEXTILE ARTICLES, WITH A DRY LINEN CAPACITY NOT EXCEEDING 10 KG.
845210 | SEWING MACHINES OF THE HOUSEHOLD TYPE.
847010 | ELECTRONIC CALCULATORS CAPABLE OF OPERATION WITHOUT AN EXTERNAL SOURCE OF POWER.
847021 | ELECTRONIC CALCULATING MACHINES, NESOI, INCORPORATING A PRINTING DEVICE.
847029 | ELECTRONIC CALCULATING MACHINES, NESOI, NOT INCORPORATING A PRINTING DEVICE.
847030 | CALCULATING MACHINES, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC.
847130 | PORTABLE DIGTL AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING MACHINES, WEIGHT NOT MORE THAN 10 KG, CONSISTING OF AT LEAST A CENTRAL PROCESSING UNIT, KEYBOARD & A DISPLAY.
847141 | DIGITAL ADP MACHINES COMPRISING IN SAME HOUSING AT LEAST A CENTRAL PROCESSING UNIT AND AN INPUT AND OUTPUT UNIT, WHETHER OR NOT COMBINED, N.E.S.O.I.
847149 | DIGITAL AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING MACHINES AND UNITS THEREOF PRESENTED IN THE FORM OF SYSTEMS, N.E.S.O.I.
847150 | DIGITAL PROCESSING UNITS OTHER THAN THOSE OF 8471.41 AND 8471.49, N.E.S.O.I.
847160 | AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INPUT OR OUTPUT UNITS, WHETHER OR NOT CONTAINING STORAGE UNITS IN THE SAME HOUSING, N.E.S.O.I.
847170 | AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING STORAGE UNITS, N.E.S.O.I.
847180 | AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING UNITS, N.E.S.O.I.
847190 | AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING UNTS THEREOF; MAGNETIC/OPTICAL READERS, MACH FOR TRANSCRIBING DATA TO DATA MEDIA IN CODED FORM & MACH FOR PROC DATA, NESOI.
847290 | OFFICE MACHINES NESOI (INCLUDING AUTOMATIC BANKNOTE DISPENSERS, COIN-SORTING MACHINES, PENCIL-SHARPENING MACHINES, PERFORATING OR STAPLING MACHINES).
847960 | EVAPORATIVE AIR COOLERS.
848310 | TRANSMISSION SHAFTS (INCLUDING CAMSHAFTS AND CRANKSHAFTS) AND CRANKS.
848320 | HOUSED BEARINGS, INCORPORATING BALL OR ROLLER BEARINGS.
848330 | BEARING HOUSINGS; PLAIN SHAFT BEARINGS.
848340 | GEARS AND GEARING (EXCEPT TOOTHED WHEELS, CHAIN SPROCKETS, ETC.); BALL OR ROLLER SCREWS; GEAR BOXES AND OTHER SPEED CHANGERS, INCL TORQUE CONVERTERS.
848350 | FLYWHEELS AND PULLEYS, INCLUDING PULLEY BLOCKS.
848360 | CLUTCHES AND SHAFT COUPLINGS (INCLUDING UNIVERSAL JOINTS).
848390 | TOOTHED WHEELS, CHAIN SPROCKETS AND OTHER TRANSMISSION ELEMENTS PRESENTED SEPARATELY; PARTS.
850811 | VACUUM CLEANERS WITH SELF-CONTAINED ELECTRIC MOTOR, OF A POWER LT=1500 W AND HAVING A DUST BAG OR OTHER RECEPTACLE CAPACITY LT=20 L.
850819 | VACUUM CLEANERS WITH SELF-CONTAINED ELECTRIC MOTOR, NESOI.
850860 | VACUUM CLEANERS WITHOUT SELF-CONTAINED ELECTRIC MOTOR.
850980 | ELECTROMECHANICAL DOMESTIC APPLIANCES, WITH SELF-CONTAINED ELECTRIC MOTOR, NESOI.
851110 | INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE SPARK PLUGS.
851120 | INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE IGNITION MAGNETOS, MAGNETO-DYNAMOS AND MAGNETIC FLYWHEELS.
851130 | INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE DISTRIBUTORS AND IGNITION COILS.
851140 | INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE STARTER MOTORS AND DUAL PURPOSE STARTER-GENERATORS.
851150 | INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE GENERATORS, NES0I.
851180 | ELECTRICAL IGNITION OR STARTING EQUIPMENT USED FOR INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES, NESOI, AND EQUIPMENT USED IN CONJUNCTION WITH SUCH ENGINES, NESOI.
851190 | PARTS FOR ELECTRICAL IGNITION OR STARTING EQUIPMENT USED FOR INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES; PARTS FOR GENERATORS AND CUT-OUTS USED WITH SUCH EQUIPMENT.
851220 | ELECTRICAL LIGHTING OR VISUAL SIGNALING EQUIPMENT, FOR USE ON CYCLES OR MOTOR VEHICLES, EXCEPT FOR USE ON BICYCLES.
851230 | ELECTRICAL SOUND SIGNALING EQUIPMENT USED FOR CYCLES OR MOTOR VEHICLES.
851240 | ELECTRICAL WINDSHIELD WIPERS, DEFROSTERS AND DEMISTERS USED FOR CYCLES OR MOTOR VEHICLES.
851631 | ELECTRIC HAIR DRYERS.
851650 | MICROWAVE OVENS.
851660 | ELECTRIC OVENS, COOKING STOVES, RANGES, COOKING PLATES, BOILING RINGS, GRILLERS AND ROASTERS, NESOI.
851671 | ELECTRIC COFFEE OR TEA MAKERS.
851672 | ELECTRIC TOASTERS.
851679 | ELECTROTHERMIC DOMESTIC APPLIANCES, NESOI.
851711 | LINE TELEPHONE SETS WITH CORDLESS HANDSETS.
851713 | TELEPHONES FOR CELLULAR NETWORKS OR FOR OTHER WIRELESS NETWORKS.
851718 | TELEPHONE SETS, NESOI.
851761 | BASE STATIONS.
851762 | MACHINES FOR THE RECEPTION, CONVERSION AND TRANSMISSION OR REGENERATION OF VOICE, IMAGES OR OTHER DATA, INCLUDING SWITCHING AND ROUTING APPARATUS.
851769 | APPARATUS FOR THE TRANSMISSION OR RECEPTION OF VOICE, IMAGES OR OTHER DATA, INCLUDING SWITCHING AND ROUTING APPARATUS, NESOI.
851920 | SOUND RECORDING OR REPRODUCING APPARATUS OPERATED BY COINS, BANKNOTES, BANK CARDS, TOKENS OR BY OTHER MEANS OF PAYMENT.
851930 | TURNTABLES (RECORD-DECKS).
851981 | SOUND RECORDING OR REPRODUCING APPARATUS, USING MAGNETIC, OPTICAL OR SEMICONDUCTOR MEDIA, NESOI.
851989 | SOUND RECORDING OR REPRODUCING APPARATUS, NESOI.
852110 | VIDEO RECORDING OR REPRODUCING APPARATUS (WHETHER OR NOT INCORPORATING A VIDEO TUNER), MAGNETIC TAPE-TYPE.
852190 | VIDEO RECORDING OR REPRODUCING APPARATUS (WHETHER OR NOT INCORPORATING A VIDEO TURNER), OTHER THAN MAGNETIC TAPE-TYPE.
852691 | RADIO NAVIGATIONAL AID APPARATUS.
852712 | POCKET-SIZE RADIO CASSETTE PLAYERS.
852713 | RADIOBROADCAST RECEIVERS CAPABLE OF OPERATING WITHOUT AN EXTERNAL SOURCE OF POWER, COMBINED WITH SOUND RECORDING OR REPRODUCING APPARATUS, N.E.S.O.I.
852719 | RADIOBROADCAST RECEIVERS, BATTERY TYPE, NESOI.
852721 | RADIOBROADCAST RECEIVERS FOR MOTOR VEHICLES, COMBINED WITH SOUND RECORDING OR REPRODUCING APPARATUS, NOT CAPABLE OF OPERATING WITHOUT OUTSIDE POWER.
852729 | RADIOBROADCAST RECEIVERS FOR MOTOR VEHICLES, NOT CAPABLE OF OPERATING WITHOUT OUTSIDE POWER, NESOI.
852791 | RECEPTION APPARATUS FOR RADIO-BROADCASTING, COMBINED WITH SOUND RECORDING OR REPRODUCING APPARATUS, NESOI.
852792 | RECEPTION APPARATUS FOR RADIO-BROADCASTING, COMBINED WITH A CLOCK, NESOI.
852799 | RECEPTION APPARATUS FOR RADIO-BROADCASTING, NESOI.
852871 | RECEPTION APPARATUS FOR TELEVISION, NOT DESIGNED TO INCORPORATE A VIDEO DISPLAY OR SCREEN.
852872 | RECEPTION APPARATUS FOR TELEVISION, COLOR, NESOI.
852910 | ANTENNAS AND ANTENNA REFLECTORS AND PARTS THEREOF.
853110 | BURGLAR OR FIRE ALARMS AND SIMILAR APPARATUS.
854370 | ELECTRICAL MACHINES AND APPARATUS, HAVING INDIVIDUAL FUNCTIONS, NESOI.
854430 | INSULATED IGNITION WIRING SETS AND OTHER WIRING SETS FOR VEHICLES, AIRCRAFT AND SHIPS.
870310 | PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES SPECIALLY DESIGNEED FOR TRAVELING ON SNOW; GOLF CARTS AND SIMILAR VEHICLES.
870321 | PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES WITH SPARK-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION RECIPROCATING PISTON ENGINE, CYLINDER CAPACITY NOT OVER 1,000 CC.
870322 | PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES WITH SPARK-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION RECIPROCATING PISTON ENGINE, CYLINDER CAPACITY OVER 1,000 CC BUT NOT OVER 1,500 CC.
870323 | PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES WITH SPARK-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION RECIPROCATING PISTON ENGINE, CYLINDER CAPACITY OVER 1,500 CC BUT NOT OVER 3,000 CC.
870324 | PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES WITH SPARK-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION RECIPROCATING PISTON ENGINE, CYCLINDER CAPACITY OVER 3,000 CC.
870331 | PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES WITH COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINE (DIESEL), CYLINDER CAPACITY NOT OVER 1,500 CC.
870332 | PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES WITH COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINE (DIESEL), CYLINDER CAPACITY OVER 1,500 CC BUT NOT OVER 2,500 CC.
870333 | PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES WITH COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINE (DIESEL), CYLINDER CAPACITY OVER 2,500 CC.
870340 | PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES, WITH BOTH APRK-IG INTRNL COMBUST AND ELECTRIC MOTOR, OTHER THAN THOSE CHARGES BY PLUGGIN TO EXTERNAL ELECTRIC POWER.
870350 | MOTOR VEHICLES, WITH BOTH COMPRES-IG INTERNAL COMBUS PISTON ENGINE (DIESEL/SEMI-DIESEL) AND ELECTRIC MOTOR,NOT CHARGED BY PLUG.
870360 | MOTOR VEHICLES WITH BOTH SPARK-IG AND ELECTRIC MOTOR, CAPABLE OF CHARGE BY PLUGGING TO EXTNL PWR.
870370 | MOTOR VEHICLES, WITH BOTH COMPRESSION-IGNITION INTERNAL COMBUSTION (DIESEL/SEMI-DIESEL AND ELECTRIC MOTOR, CAPABLE OF CHARGED BY PLUGGING.
870380 | MOTOR VEHICLES WITH ONLY ELECTRIC MOTOR,NESOI.
870390 | PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES, NESOI.
870600 | CHASSIS FITTED WITH ENGINES FOR TRACTORS, MOTOR VEHICLES FOR PASSENGERS, GOODS TRANSPORT VEHICLES AND SPECIAL PURPOSE MOTOR VEHICLES, AND VALUED AT $50000 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
870710 | BODIES (INCLUDING CABS) FOR MOTOR CARS AND OTHER VEHICLES PRINCIPALLY DESIGNED FOR TRANSPORT OF PERSONS (EXCEPT PUBLIC-TRANSPORT OF PASSENGERS), AND VALUED AT $50000 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
871120 | MOTORCYCLES AND CYCLES WITH AN AUXILIARY MOTOR, WITH RECIPROCATING INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINE, CYLINDER CAPACITY OVER 50 CC BUT NOT OVER 250 CC, AND VALUED AT $5000 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
871130 | MOTORCYCLES AND CYCLES WITH AN AUXILIARY MOTOR, WITH RECIPROCATING INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTOL ENGINE, CYLINDER CAPACITY OVER 250 CC NOT OVER 500 CC, AND VALUED AT $5000 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
871140 | MOTORCYCLES AND CYCLES WITH AN AUXILIARY MOTOR, WITH RECIPROCATING INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINE, CYLINDER CAPACITY OVER 500 CC NOT OVER 800 CC, AND VALUED AT $5000 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
871150 | MOTORCYCLES AND CYCLES WITH AN AUXILIARY MOTOR WITH RECIPROCATING INTERNAL COMBUSTION PISTON ENGINE, CYLINDER CAPACITY OVER 800 CC, AND VALUED AT $5000 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
871160 | MOTORCYCLES WITH ELECTRIC MOTOR FOR PROPULSION, AND VALUED AT $5000 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
871190 | MOTORCYCLES AND CYCLES FITTED WITH AN AUXILIARY MOTORS, NESOI; SIDE-CARS, AND VALUED AT $5000 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
871410 | PARTS AND ACCESSORIES OF MOTORCYCLES (INCLUDING MOPEDS), AND VALUED AT $5000 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
902000 | BREATHING APPLIANCES NESOI AND GAS MASKS HAVING MECHANICAL PARTS AND/OR REPLACEABLE FILTERS; PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF.
910111 | WRIST WATCHES, BATTERY POWERED, WITH CASES OF PRECIOUS METAL (OR OF METAL CLAD WITH PRECIOUS METAL), WITH MECHANICAL DISPLAY ONLY, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
910119 | WRIST WATCHES, BATTERY POWERED, WITH CASES OF PRECIOUS METAL (OR OF METAL CLAD WITH PRECIOUS METAL), WITH DISPLAY NESOI, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
910121 | WRIST WATCHES, NOT BATTERY POWERED, WITH CASES OF PRECIOUS METAL (OR OF METAL CLAD WITH PRECIOUS METAL), WITH AUTOMATIC WINDING, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
910129 | WRIST WATCHES, NOT BATTERY POWERED, WITH CASES OF PRECIOUS METAL (OR OF METAL CLAD WITH PRECIOUS METAL), WITHOUT AUTOMATIC WINDING, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
910191 | POCKET WATCHES AND OTHER WATCHES, EXCEPT WRIST WATCHES, WITH CASES OF PRECIOUS METAL (OR OF METAL CLAD WITH PRECIOUS METAL), ELECTRICALLY POWERED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
910199 | POCKET WATCHES AND OTHER WATCHES, EXCEPT WRIST WATCHES, WITH CASES OF PRECIOUS METAL (OR OF METAL CLAD WITH PRECIOUS METAL), NOT BATTERY POWERED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
911110 | WATCH CASES OF PRECIOUS METAL OR OF METAL CLAD WITH PRECIOUS METAL, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
911190 | PARTS FOR WATCH CASES OF PRECIOUS METAL, BASE METAL OR OF OTHER MATERIALS, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
911310 | WATCH STRAPS, WATCH BANDS AND WATCH BRACELETS, AND PARTS THERE OF, OF PRECIOUS METAL OR OF METAL CLAD WITH PRECIOUS METAL, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
920120 | GRAND PIANOS.
960110 | WORKED IVORY AND ARTICLES OF IVORY.
960190 | WORKED BONE, TORTOISE-SHELL, HORN, ANTLERS, CORAL, MOTHER-OF-PEARL AND OTHER ANIMAL CARVING MATERIAL, AND ARTICLES OF THESE MATERIALS, NESOI.
960200 | WORKED VEGETABLE OR MINERAL CARVING MATERIALS ETC.; MOLDED OR CARVED ARTICLES OF WAX, STEARIN, GUM, RESIN ETC. NESOI; UNHARDENED GELATIN AND ARTICLES.
960330 | ARTISTS' BRUSHES, WRITING BRUSHES AND SIMILAR BRUSHES FOR THE APPLICATION OF COSMETICS.
960830 | FOUNTAIN PENS, STYLOGRAPH PENS AND OTHER PENS.
961620 | POWDER PUFFS AND PADS FOR APPLYING COSMETICS AND TOILET PREPARATIONS.
970121 | PAINTINGS, DRAWINGS AND PASTELS, HAND EXECUTED WORKS OF ART, FRAMED OR NOT FRAMED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
970122 | COLLAGES AND SIMILAR DECORATIVE PLAQUES, FRAMED OR NOT FRAMED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
970129 | COLLAGES AND SIMILAR DECORATIVE PLAQUES, FRAMED OR NOT FRAMED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
970191 | PAINTINGS, DRAWINGS AND PASTELS, HAND EXECUTED WORKS OF ART, FRAMED OR NOT FRAMED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
970192 | COLLAGES AND SIMILAR DECORATIVE PLAQUES, FRAMED OR NOT FRAMED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
970199 | COLLAGES AND SIMILAR DECORATIVE PLAQUES, FRAMED OR NOT FRAMED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
970210 | ORIGINAL ENGRAVINGS, PRINTS AND LITHOGRAPHS, FRAMED OR NOT FRAMED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
970290 | ORIGINAL ENGRAVINGS, PRINTS AND LITHOGRAPHS, FRAMED OR NOT FRAMED, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
970310 | ORIGINAL SCULPTURES AND STATUARY, IN ANY MATERIAL, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
970390 | ORIGINAL SCULPTURES AND STATUARY, IN ANY MATERIAL, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
970400 | POSTAGE OR REVENUE STAMPS, STAMP-POSTMARKS, FIRST-DAY COVERS, POSTAL STATIONARY (STAMPED) ETC., USED, OR IF UNUSED NOT OF CURRENT OR NEW ISSUE, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
970510 | COLLECTIONS AND COLLECTORS' PIECES OF ZOOLOGICAL, BOTANICAL, MINERALOGICAL, HISTORICAL, ARCHAELOGICAL, NUMISMATIC OR OTHER INTEREST, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
970521 | COLLECTIONS AND COLLECTORS' PIECES OF ZOOLOGICAL, BOTANICAL, MINERALOGICAL, HISTORICAL, ARCHAELOGICAL, NUMISMATIC OR OTHER INTEREST, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
970522 | COLLECTIONS AND COLLECTORS' PIECES OF ZOOLOGICAL, BOTANICAL, MINERALOGICAL, HISTORICAL, ARCHAELOGICAL, NUMISMATIC OR OTHER INTEREST, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
970529 | COLLECTIONS AND COLLECTORS' PIECES OF ZOOLOGICAL, BOTANICAL, MINERALOGICAL, HISTORICAL, ARCHAELOGICAL, NUMISMATIC OR OTHER INTEREST, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
970531 | COLLECTIONS AND COLLECTORS' PIECES OF ZOOLOGICAL, BOTANICAL, MINERALOGICAL, HISTORICAL, ARCHAELOGICAL, NUMISMATIC OR OTHER INTEREST, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
970539 | COLLECTIONS AND COLLECTORS' PIECES OF ZOOLOGICAL, BOTANICAL, MINERALOGICAL, HISTORICAL, ARCHAELOGICAL, NUMISMATIC OR OTHER INTEREST, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
970610 | ANTIQUES OF AN AGE EXCEEDING ONE HUNDRED YEARS, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
970690 | ANTIQUES OF AN AGE EXCEEDING ONE HUNDRED YEARS, AND VALUED AT $300 OR GREATER PER UNIT WHOLESALE PRICE IN THE U.S.
[88 FR 33460, May 23, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 4815, Jan. 25, 2024; 89 FR 51677, June 18, 2024]

Supplement No. 6 to Part 746—Russian and Belarusian Industry Sector Sanctions Pursuant to § 746.8(a)(6)

The items identified in this supplement are a subset of items that are otherwise designated as EAR99 under the Commerce Control List (CCL) in supplement no. 1 to part 774. These items may be useful for Russia's chemical and biological weapons production capabilities or may be diverted from Belarus to Russia for these or other activities of concern. These items consist of discrete chemicals, biologics, fentanyl and its precursors, and related equipment. BIS has specified Chemical Abstract Numbers (CAS) where applicable in this supplement to assist exporters, reexporters, and transferors in classifying these items. In addition, paragraph (g) of supplement no. 6 to part 746 identifies equipment and other items that BIS has determined are not manufactured in Russia or are otherwise important to Russia in developing advanced production and development capabilities to enable advanced manufacturing across a number of industries or may be diverted from Belarus to Russia for these or other activities of concern. This supplement does not include any item that meets the definition of “medicine” in § 772.1 of the EAR.
(a) Chemicals in concentrations of 95% weight or greater, as follows:
(1) Ethylene dichloride (CAS 107-06-2);
(2) Nitromethane (CAS 75-52-5);
(3) Picric acid (CAS 88-89-1);
(4) Aluminum chloride (CAS 7446-70-0);
(5) Arsenic (CAS 7440-38-2);
(6) Arsenic trioxide (CAS 1327-53-3);
(7) Bis(2-chloroethyl)ethylamine hydrochloride (CAS 3590-07-6);
(8) Bis(2-chloroethyl)methylamine hydrochloride (CAS 55-86-7);
(9) Tris(2-chloroethyl)amine hydrochloride (CAS 817-09-4);
(10) Tributylphosphite (CAS 102-85-2);
(11) Isocyanatomethane (CAS 624-83-9);
(12) Quinaldine (CAS 91-63-4);
(13) 2-bromochloroethane (CAS 107-04-0);
(14) Benzil (CAS 134-81-6);
(15) Diethyl ether (CAS 60-29-7);
(16) Dimethyl ether (CAS 115-10-6);
(17) Dimethylaminoethanol (CAS 108-01-0);
(18) 2-methoxyethanol (CAS 109-86-4);
(19) Butyrylcholinesterase (BCHE);
(20) Diethylenetriamine (CAS 111-40-0);
(21) Dichloromethane (CAS 75-09-2);
(22) Dimethylaniline (CAS 121-69-7);
(23) Ethyl bromide (CAS 74-96-4);
(24) Ethyl chloride (CAS 75-00-3);
(25) Ethylamine (CAS 75-04-7);
(26) Hexamine (CAS 100-97-0);
(27) Isopropanol (CAS 67- 63-0);
(28) Isopropyl bromide (CAS 75-26-3);
(29) Isopropyl ether (CAS 108-20-3);
(30) Methylamine (CAS 74-89-5);
(31) Methyl bromide (CAS 74-83-9);
(32) Monoisopropylamine (CAS 75-31-0);
(33) Obidoxime chloride (CAS 114-90-9);
(34) Potassium bromide (CAS 7758-02-3);
(35) Pyridine (CAS 110-86-1);
(36) Pyridostigmine bromide (CAS 101-26-8);
(37) Sodium bromide (CAS 7647-15-6);
(38) Sodium metal (CAS 7440-23-5);
(39) Tributylamine (CAS 102-82-9);
(40) Triethylamine (CAS 121-44-8);
(41) Trimethylamine (CAS 75-50-3);
(42) Lithium chloride (CAS 7447-41-8);
(43) Lithium chloride hydrate (CAS 85144-11-2);
(44) Lithium chloride monohydrate (CAS 16712-20-2); or
(45) Lithium carbonate (CAS 554-13-2).
(b) Chemicals in concentrations of 90% weight or greater, as follows:
(1) Acetone (CAS 67-64-1);
(2) Acetylene (CAS 74-86-2);
(3) Ammonia (CAS 7664-41-7);
(4) Antimony (CAS 7440-36-0);
(5) Benzaldehyde (CAS 100-52-7);
(6) Benzoin (CAS 119-53-9);
(7) 1-Butanol (CAS 71-36-3);
(8) 2-Butanol (CAS 78-92-2);
(9) Iso-Butanol (CAS 78-83-1);
(10) Tert-Butanol (CAS 75-65-0);
(11) Calcium carbide (CAS 75-20-7);
(12) Carbon monoxide (CAS 630-08-0);
(13) Chlorine (CAS 7782-50-5);
(14) Cyclohexanol (CAS 108-93-0);
(15) Dicyclohexylamine (CAS 101-83-7);
(16) Ethanol (CAS 64-17-5);
(17) Ethylene (CAS 74-85-1);
(18) Ethylene oxide (CAS 75-21-8);
(19) Fluoroapatite (CAS 1306-05-4);
(20) Hydrogen chloride (CAS 7647-01-0);
(21) Hydrogen sulfide (CAS 7783-06-4);
(22) Mandelic acid (CAS 90-64-2);
(23) Methanol (CAS 67-56-1);
(24) Methyl chloride (CAS 74-87-3);
(25) Methyl iodide (CAS 74-88-4);
(26) Methyl mercaptan (CAS 74-93-1);
(27) Monoethyleneglycol (CAS 107-21-1);
(28) Oxalyl chloride (CAS 79-37-8);
(29) Potassium sulfide (CAS 1312-73-8);
(30) Potassium thiocyanate (CAS 333-20-0);
(31) Sodium hypochlorite (CAS 7681-52-9);
(32) Sulphur (CAS 7704-34-9);
(33) Sulphur dioxide (CAS 7446-09-5);
(34) Sulphur trioxide (CAS 7446-11-9);
(35) Thiophosphoryl chloride (CAS 3982-91-0);
(36) Tri-isobutyl phosphite (CAS 1606-96-8);
(37) White phosphorus (CAS 12185-10-3); or
(38) Yellow phosphorus (CAS 7723-14-0).
(c) Fentanyl and its derivatives Alfentanil, Sufentanil, Remifentanil, Carfentanil, thiafentanil and salts thereof.
Note 1 to paragraph (c): The items in paragraph (c) are from the EU list, as X.C.IX.002.
Note 2 to paragraph (c): Consistent with EU List X.C.IX.002, paragraph (c) does not control products identified as consumer goods packaged for retail sale for personal use or packaged for individual use.
(d) Chemical precursors to Central Nervous System Acting Chemicals, as follows:
(1) 4-anilino-N-phenethylpiperidine (CAS 21409-26-7);
(2) N-phenethyl-4-piperidone (CAS 39742-60-4);
(3) Tert-butyl 4-(phenylamino) piperidine-1-carboxylate (CAS 125541-22-2);
(4) N-phenyl-N-(piperidin-4-yl)propionamide (Norfentanyl) (CAS 1609-66-1); or
(5) N-phenyl-4-piperidinamine (CAS 504-24-5).
Note 3 to paragraph (d): The items in paragraph (d) are from the EU list, as X.C.IX.003.
Note 4 to paragraph (d): Consistent with EU List X.C.IX.003, paragraph (d) does not control “chemical mixtures” containing one or more of the chemicals specified in paragraph (d) (and consistent with EU List entry X.C.IX.003) in which no individually specified chemical constitutes more than 1% by the weight of the mixture.
Note 5 to paragraph (d): Consistent with EU List X.C.IX.003, paragraph (d) does not control products identified as consumer goods packaged for retail sale for personal use or packaged for individual use.
(e) Biologics: This paragraph (e) identifies certain biologics and biological equipment. The control on these items is intended to hinder Russia bioweapons production capabilities.
(1) Butyrylcholinesterase (BCHE);
(2) Cell culture materials, including cell lines, vectors, plasmids, and cell culture media, n.e.s.;
(3) Assay kits and reagents for nucleotide or peptide isolation, extraction, or purification, n.e.s.;
(4) Isolated or purified nucleotides and oligonucleotides, n.e.s.;
(5) Isolated or purified amino acids, peptides and proteins, n.e.s.;
(6) Reagents and materials for oligonucleotide synthesis, n.e.s.; or
(7) Resins, reagents, and materials for peptide synthesis, n.e.s.
(f) Equipment and consumable “materials. This paragraph (f) identifies additional equipment and consumable “materials” that BIS has determined are not manufactured in Russia. Therefore, the implementation of restrictive export controls on these items by the United States and our allies will economically impact Russia and significantly hinder Russia's CBW production capabilities.
(1) Reaction vessels, agitators, heat exchangers, condensers, pumps (including single seal pumps), valves, storage tanks, containers, receivers, and distillation or absorption columns, n.e.s.;
(2) Vacuum pumps with a manufacturer's specified maximum flow-rate greater than 1 m 3/h (under standard temperature and pressure conditions), casings (pump bodies), preformed casing-liners, impellers, rotors, and jet pump nozzles designed for such pumps; n.e.s.;
(3) Laboratory equipment, including “components,” “parts,” “accessories,” and consumable “materials” for such equipment, for the analysis or detection, destructive or non-destructive, of chemical substances, n.e.s.;
(4) Whole chlor-alkali electrolysis cells (mercury, diaphragm, and membrane) and “components” “specially designed” therefor as follows:
(i) Electrodes;
(ii) Diaphragms; and
(iii) Ion exchange membranes;
(5) Compressors “specially designed” to compress wet or dry chlorine, regardless of material of construction;
(6) Class II biosafety cabinets and glove boxes, n.e.s.;
(7) Floor-mounted fume hoods (walk-in style) with a minimum nominal width of 2.5 meters, n.e.s.;
(8) Full face-mask air-purifying and air-supplying respirators n.e.s.;
(9) Conventional or turbulent air-flow clean-air rooms and self-contained fan-HEPA filter units that may be used for P3 or P4 (BSL 3, BSL 4, L3, L4) containment facilities;
(10) Microwave reactors;
(11) Well plates and microarrays;
(12) Fermenters and components therefor, n.e.s.;
(13) Centrifuges and ultracentrifuges capable of separating biological samples, with a maximum capacity of 5L, “components” and “accessories” therefor, n.e.s., including centrifuge tubes and concentrators;
(14) Filtration equipment, “components,” “parts,” and “accessories,” capable of use in handling biological materials, n.e.s.;
(15) Nucleic acid synthesizers and assemblers, “components,” “parts,” and “accessories,” n.e.s.;
(16) Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and quantitative PCR (qPCR) instruments “components,” “parts,” and “accessories;”
(17) Robotic liquid handling instruments, “components,” “parts,” and “accessories,” n.e.s.;
(18) Chromatography and spectrometry “components,” “parts,” and “accessories,” n.e.s.;
(19) Nucleic acid sequencers, “components,” “parts,” and “accessories;”
(20) Aerosol inhalation testing equipment, components, parts and accessories, n.e.s.;
(21) Flow cytometry equipment, components, parts and accessories, n.e.s.;
(22) Probe sonicators, cell disruptors and tissue homogenizers;
(23) 'Continuous flow reactors' and their 'modular components,' “parts,” and “accessories,” n.e.s;
Technical Notes for paragraph (f)(23): 1. Consistent with EU List X.B.X.001, for purposes of paragraph (f)(23) 'continuous flow reactors' consist of plug and play systems where reactants are continuously fed into the reactor and the resultant product is collected at the outlet. 2. Consistent with EU List X.B.X.001, for purposes of paragraph (f)(23) 'modular components' are fluidic modules, liquid pumps, valves, packed-bed modules, mixer modules, pressure gauges, liquid-liquid separators, etc.
(24)—(26) [Reserved]
(27) Peptide synthesizers, “components,” “parts,” and “accessories.”
Note 6 to paragraph (f): Consistent with the definitions in part 772 of the EAR, “components,” “parts,” “accessories,” and “materials” include consumables.
(g) Quantum computing and advanced manufacturing: This paragraph (g) identifies additional equipment and other items that are believed to not be manufactured in Russia or are otherwise important to Russia in developing advanced production and development capabilities.
(1) 'Quantum Computers', and “specially designed” “electronic assemblies” and “components” therefor, as follows:
(i) Quantum processing units, qubit circuits, and qubit devices;
(ii) Quantum control “components” and quantum measurement devices.
Note 7 to paragraph (g)(1): Quantum processing units, qubit circuits and qubit devices include but are not limited to semiconductor, superconducting, Ion Trap, photonic interaction, silicon/spin, cold atoms.
Note 8 to paragraph (g)(1): Quantum control “components” and quantum measurement devices applies to items designed for calibrating, initializing, manipulating or measuring the resident qubits of a quantum computer.
(2) 'Cryogenic refrigeration systems' designed to maintain temperatures below 1.1k for 48hrs or more and “specially designed” cryogenic refrigeration equipment and “components” as follows:
(i) Pulse Tubes;
(ii) Cryostats;
(iii) Dewars;
(iv) Gas Handling System (GHS);
(v) Compressors;
(vi) Control Units;
Note 9 to paragraph (g)(2): 'Cryogenic refrigeration systems' include but are not limited to Dilution Refrigeration, Adiabatic Demagnisation Refrigerators and Laser Cooling Systems.
(3) Ultra-High Vacuum (UHV) equipment as follows:
(i) UHV pumps (sublimation, turbomolecular, diffusion, cryogenic, ion-getter);
(ii) UHV pressure gauges.
Note 10 to paragraph (g)(3): UHV means 100 nanoPascals (nPa) or lower.
(4) High Quantum Efficiency (QE) photodetectors and sources with a QE greater than 80% in the wavelength range exceeding 300nm but not exceeding 1700nm;
(5) Manufacturing equipment as follows:
(i) Additive manufacturing equipment for the production of metal parts;
Note 11 to paragraph (g)(5)(i): This entry identified under paragraph (5)(i) only applies to the following systems: 1. Powder-bed systems using Selective Laser Melting (SLM), laser cusing; Direct Metal Laser Sintering (DMLS) or Electron Beam Melting (ELB), or 2. Powder-fed systems using laser cladding, direct energy deposition or laser metal deposition.
(ii) Additive manufacturing equipment for “energetic materials”, including equipment using ultrasonic extrusion;
(iii) Vat photopolymerisation additive manufacturing equipment using Stereo Lithography (SLA) or Direct Light Processing (DLP)
(6) Metal powders and metal alloy powders “specially designed” for the additive manufacturing equipment specified in 3a.
(7) Microscopes, related equipment and detectors, as follows:
(i) Scanning Electron Microscopes (SEM);
(ii) Scanning Auger Microscopes;
(iii) Transmission Electron Microscopes (TEM);
(iv) Atomic Force Microscopes (AFM);
(v) Scanning Force Microscopes (SFM);
(vi) Equipment and detectors “specially designed” for use with the microscopes specified in a. to e., employing any of the following:
(A) X-ray Photo Spectroscopy (XPS):
(B) Energy-Dispersive X-ray Spectroscopy (EDX, EDS);
(C) Electron Back Scatter Detector (EBSD) systems;
(D) Electron Spectroscopy for Chemical Analysis (ESCA).
(8) 'Decapsulation' equipment for semiconductor devices.
Note 12 to paragraph (g)(8): 'Decapsulation' is the removal of a cap, lid, or encapsulating material from a packaged integrated circuit by mechanical, thermal, or chemical methods.
(9) “Software” “specially designed” or modified for the “development”, “production” or “use” of the items specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (8) of this supplement.
(10) “Software” for Digital Twins (DT) of additive manufacture products or for the determination of the reliability of additive manufacture products.
(11) “Technology” for the “development”, “production” or “use” of the items specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (10) of this supplement.
(h) Riot Control Agents which are isomers of CS (o-Chlorobenzylidenemalononitrile or o-Chlorobenzalmalononitrile) (CAS 2698-41-1); CN (Phenylacyl chloride or w-Chloroacetophenone) (CAS 532-27-4); or Oleoresin Capsicum (CAS 8023-77-6) as follows:
(1) 8-Methyl-N-vanillyl-trans-6-nonenamide (Capsaicin) (CAS 404-86-4);
(2) 8-Methyl-N-vanillylnonamide (Dihydrocapsaicin) (CAS 19408-84-5);
(3) N-Vanillylnonamide (Pseudocapsaicin, PAVA) (CAS 2444-46-4);
(4) N-Vanillyl-9-methyldec-7-(E)-enamide (Homocapsaicin) (CAS 58493-48-4);
(5) N-Vanillyl-9-methyldecanamide (Homodihydrocapsaicin) (CAS 20279-06-5);
(6) N-Vanillyl-7-methyloctanamide (Nordihydrocapsaicin) (CAS 28789-35-7);
(7) 2′-chloroacetophenone (CAS 2142-68-9);
(8) 3′-chloroacetophenone (CAS 99-02-5);
(9) α-chlorobenzylidenemalononitrile (CAS 18270-61-6); and
(10) Cis-4-acetylaminodicyclohexylmethane (CAS 37794-87-9).
(i) Pre-cursors for riot control agents and chloropicrin as follows:
(1) Malononitrile (CAS 109-77-3);
(2) 2-Chlorobenzaldehyde (CAS 89-98-5);
(3) 2-Chlorobenzyl Alcohol (CAS 17849-38-6);
(4) 2-Chlorobenzylamine (CAS 89-97-4);
(5) Benzene, 1-chloro-2-(dimethoxymethyl) (CAS 70380-66-4);
(6) Acetophenone (CAS 98-86-2);
(7) Chloroacetyl Chloride (CAS 79-04-9);
(8) Chloroform (CAS 67-66-3); and
(9) o-Aminophenol (CAS 95-55-6).
[87 FR 57104, Sept. 16, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 12204, Feb. 27, 2023; 88 FR 33469, May 23, 2023; 89 FR 4815, Jan 25, 2024; 89 FR 51678, June 18, 2024; 89 FR 87282, Nov. 1, 2024]

Supplement No. 7 to Part 746—Items That Require a License Under § 746.6 When Destined to the Temporarily Occupied Crimea Region of Ukraine, Under § 746.7 When Destined to Iran, and Under § 746.8 When Destined to Russia or Belarus

The items identified in this supplement are a subset of items that are identified in specific Export Control Classification Numbers or designated as EAR99 under the Commerce Control List (CCL) in supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR. Also see paragraph (f) of § 734.9 of the EAR for the Russia/Belarus/Temporarily occupied Crimea region of Ukraine Foreign Direct Product (FDP) rule and paragraph (j) for the Iran FDP rule. Both of these FDP rules include the items identified in this supplement as part of the criteria for what foreign made items are subject to the EAR.
(a) The source for the Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS)-6 codes and descriptions in this list is the United States International Trade Commission (USITC)'s Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (2023). The items described in this supplement include any modified or designed “components,” “parts,” “accessories,” and “attachments” therefor regardless of the HTS Code or HTS Description of the “components,” “parts,” “accessories,” and “attachments,” apart from any “part” or minor “component” that is a fastener (e.g., screw, bolt, nut, nut plate, stud, insert, clip, rivet, pin), washer, spacer, insulator, grommet, bushing, spring, wire, or solder. The exclusion of fasteners from this control does not apply to fasteners that are designated under an HTS Code under this supplement. Although generally fasteners (e.g., screws, bolts, nuts, nut plates, studs, inserts, clips, rivets, pins), and washers, spacers, insulators, grommets, bushings, springs, wires, and solder are excluded from the scope of this supplement, see part 744 of the EAR for license requirements for Russia and Belarus that apply to all items “subject to the EAR,” e.g., § 744.21 of the EAR and the Entity List license requirements, which in most cases extend to all items “subject to the EAR.” This supplement includes two columns consisting of the HTS Code and HTS Description to assist exporters, reexporters, and transferors in identifying the products in this supplement. For information on HTS codes in general, you may contact a local import specialist at U.S. Customs and Border Protection at the nearest port.
(b) The items classified under the provisions identified in the HTS-6 Code column of this supplement are subject to the license requirements under §§ 746.6(a)(1)(ii), 746.7(a)(1)(ii) and (iii), and 746.8(a)(2). The other column—HTS Description—is intended to assist exporters with their AES filing responsibilities. The license requirements extend to HTS Codes at the 8 and 10 digit level when those HTS-8 and HTS-10 codes begin with the HTS-6 Codes as the first 6 numbers of those longer HS Codes.
HTS-6 codes | HTS description
840710 | Aircraft spark-ignition reciprocating or rotary internal combustion piston engines.
840890 | Compression-ignition internal combustion piston engines (diesel or semi-diesel engines), NESOI.
840910 | Parts for spark-ignition or rotary internal combustion piston engines or compression-ignition internal combustion piston engines, for aircraft.
845710 | Machining centers for working metal.
845811 | Horizontal lathes for removing metal, numerically controlled.
845891 | Lathes, excluding horizontal, for removing metal, numerically controlled.
845961 | Milling machines, not knee type, for removing metal, numerically controlled.
846693 | Parts and accessories for machine tools, for laser operation, metalworking machining centers, lathes and drilling machines, etc., NESOI.
847150 | Processing units other than those of subheading 8471.41 or 8471.49, whether or not containing in the same housing one or two of the following types of unit: storage units, input units, output units.
847180 | Automatic data processing units, NESOI.
848210 | Ball bearings.
848220 | Tapered roller bearings, including cone and tapered roller assemblies.
848230 | Spherical roller bearings.
848250 | Cylindrical roller bearings NESOI.
848610 | Machines and apparatus for the manufacture of boules or wafers.
848620 | Machines and apparatus for the manufacture of semiconductor devices or of electronic integrated circuits.
848640 | Machines and apparatus for the manufacture or repair of masks and reticles; for assembling semiconductors devices; for lifting, handling, loading or unloading of semi-conductor devices.
850440 | Electrical static converters; power supplies for ADP machines or units of 8471.
851762 | Machines for the reception, conversion and transmission or regeneration of voice, images or other data, including switching and routing apparatus.
851769 | Apparatus for the transmission or reception of voice, images or other data, including switching and routing apparatus, NESOI.
852589 | Television cameras, digital cameras and video camera recorders.
852691 | Radio navigational aid apparatus.
852910 | Antennas and antenna reflectors and parts thereof.
852990 | Parts (except antennas and reflectors) sfor use with radio transmission, radar, radio navigational aid, reception and television apparatus, NESOI.
853221 | Tantalum capacitors.
853224 | Fixed capacitors NESOI, multilayer ceramic dielectric.
853400 | Printed circuits.
853669 | Electric plugs and sockets for a voltage not exceeding 1,000 V.
853690 | Electrical apparatus for switching, protecting or making connections to or in electrical circuits, for a voltage not exceeding 1,000 V, NESOI.
854110 | Diodes, other than photosensitive or light-emitting diodes.
854121 | Transistors, other than photosensitive, with a dissipation rate of less than 1W.
854129 | Transistors, other than photosensitive, NESOI.
854130 | Thyristors, diacs and triacs, other than photosensitive devices.
854149 | Photosensitive semiconductor devices, excluding photovoltaic generators and cells.
854151 | Semiconductor-based transducers, NESOI.
854159 | Semiconductor devices NESOI.
854160 | Mounted piezoelectric crystals.
854231 | Processors and controllers, whether or not combined with memories, converters, logic circuits, amplifiers, clock and timing circuits, or other circuits.
854232 | Memories.
854233 | Amplifiers.
854239 | Other electronic integrated circuits.
854320 | Electrical signal generators.
854800 | Electrical parts of machinery or apparatus, NESOI
880730 | Other parts of airplanes, helicopters or unmanned aircraft.
901310 | Telescopic sights for fitting to arms; periscopes; telescopes designed to form parts of machines, appliances, instruments or apparatus of this chapter or Section XVI.
901380 | Other optical devices, appliances and instruments not elsewhere specified.
901420 | Instruments and appliances for aeronautical or space navigation (other than compasses).
901480 | Other navigational instruments and appliances.
902750 | Other instruments and apparatus using optical radiations (ultraviolet, visible, infrared).
903020 | Oscilloscopes and oscillographs.
903032 | Multimeters with recording device.
903039 | Instruments and apparatus for measuring or checking voltage, current, resistance or electrical power, with recording device.
903082 | Oscilloscopes, spectrum analyzers and other instruments and apparatus for measuring or checking electrical quantities, for measuring or checking semiconductor wafers or devices.
[88 FR 12155, Feb. 27, 2023, as amended at 88 FR 33469, May 23, 2023; 89 FR 4815, Jan. 25, 2024; 89 FR 29256, Apr. 22, 2024; 89 FR 51678, June 18, 2024]