Subpart D—Post Federal Award Requirements

§ 200.300 Statutory and national policy requirements.

(a) The Federal agency or pass-through entity must manage and administer the Federal award in a manner so as to ensure that Federal funding is expended and associated programs are implemented in full accordance with the U.S. Constitution, applicable Federal statutes and regulations—including provisions protecting free speech, religious liberty, public welfare, and the environment, and those prohibiting discrimination—and the requirements of this part. The Federal agency or pass-through entity must communicate to a recipient or subrecipient all relevant requirements, including those contained in general appropriations provisions, and incorporate them directly or by reference in the terms and conditions of the Federal award.
(b) In administering Federal awards that are subject to a Federal statute prohibiting discrimination based on sex, the Federal agency or pass-through entity must ensure that the award is administered in a way that does not unlawfully discriminate based on sexual orientation or gender identity if the statute's prohibition on sex discrimination encompasses discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity consistent with the Supreme Court's reasoning in Bostock v. Clayton County, 140 S. Ct. 1731 (2020).
(c) In administering awards in accordance with the U.S. Constitution, the Federal agency must take account of the heightened constitutional scrutiny that may apply under the Constitution's Equal Protection guarantee for government action that provides differential treatment based on protected characteristics.

§ 200.301 Performance measurement.

(a) The Federal agency must measure the recipient's performance to show achievement of program goals and objectives, share lessons learned, improve program outcomes, and foster the adoption of promising practices. The Federal agency should establish program goals and objectives during program planning and design (see § 200.202). The Federal agency should clearly communicate the specific program goals and objectives in the Federal award, including how the Federal agency will measure the achievement of the goals and objectives, the expected timeline, and information on how the recipient must report the achievement of program goals and objectives. The Federal agency should also clearly communicate in the Federal award any expected outcomes (such as outputs, service performance, or public impacts of any of these), indicators, targets, baseline data, or data collections that the recipient is responsible for measuring and reporting. The Federal agency must ensure all requirements for measuring performance align with the Federal agency's strategic goals, strategic objectives, or performance goals relevant to a program (see OMB Circular A-11, Preparation, Submission, and Execution of the Budget Part 6).
(b) When establishing performance reporting frequency and content, the Federal agency should consider what information will be necessary to measure the recipient's progress, to identify promising practices of recipients, and build the evidence upon which the Federal agency makes program and performance decisions. The Federal agency should not require additional information that is not necessary for measuring program performance and evaluation. See § 200.329 for more information on reporting program performance.
(c) The Federal agency should also specify in the Federal award any requirements of the recipients' participation in federally funded evaluations.

§ 200.302 Financial management.

(a) Each State must expend and account for the Federal award in accordance with State laws and procedures for expending and accounting for the State's funds. All recipient and subrecipient financial management systems, including records documenting compliance with Federal statutes, regulations, and the terms and conditions of the Federal award, must be sufficient to permit the preparation of reports required by the terms and conditions; and tracking expenditures to establish that funds have been used in accordance with Federal statutes, regulations, and the terms and conditions of the Federal award. See § 200.450.
(b) The recipient's and subrecipient's financial management system must provide for the following (see §§ 200.334, 200.335, 200.336, and 200.337):
(1) Identification of all Federal awards received and expended and the Federal programs under which they were received. Federal program and Federal award identification must include, as applicable, the Assistance Listings title and number, Federal award identification number, year the Federal award was issued, and name of the Federal agency or pass-through entity.
(2) Accurate, current, and complete disclosure of the financial results of each Federal award or program in accordance with the reporting requirements in §§ 200.328 and 200.329. When a Federal agency or pass-through entity requires reporting on an accrual basis from a recipient or subrecipient that maintains its records other than on an accrual basis, the recipient or subrecipient must not be required to establish an accrual accounting system. This recipient or subrecipient may develop accrual data for its reports based on an analysis of the documentation on hand.
(3) Maintaining records that sufficiently identify the amount, source, and expenditure of Federal funds for Federal awards. These records must contain information necessary to identify Federal awards, authorizations, financial obligations, unobligated balances, as well as assets, expenditures, income, and interest. All records must be supported by source documentation.
(4) Effective control over and accountability for all funds, property, and assets. The recipient or subrecipient must safeguard all assets and ensure they are used solely for authorized purposes. See § 200.303.
(5) Comparison of expenditures with budget amounts for each Federal award.
(6) Written procedures to implement the requirements of § 200.305.
(7) Written procedures for determining the allowability of costs in accordance with subpart E and the terms and conditions of the Federal award.

§ 200.303 Internal controls.

The recipient and subrecipient must:
(a) Establish, document, and maintain effective internal control over the Federal award that provides reasonable assurance that the recipient or subrecipient is managing the Federal award in compliance with Federal statutes, regulations, and the terms and conditions of the Federal award. These internal controls should align with the guidance in “Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government” issued by the Comptroller General of the United States or the “Internal Control-Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
(b) Comply with the U.S. Constitution, Federal statutes, regulations, and the terms and conditions of the Federal award.
(c) Evaluate and monitor the recipient's or subrecipient's compliance with statutes, regulations, and the terms and conditions of Federal awards.
(d) Take prompt action when instances of noncompliance are identified.
(e) Take reasonable cybersecurity and other measures to safeguard information including protected personally identifiable information (PII) and other types of information. This also includes information the Federal agency or pass-through entity designates as sensitive or other information the recipient or subrecipient considers sensitive and is consistent with applicable Federal, State, local, and tribal laws regarding privacy and responsibility over confidentiality.

§ 200.304 Bonds.

(a) Where the Federal Government guarantees or insures the repayment of money borrowed by the recipient, the Federal agency may require adequate bonding and insurance if the bonding and insurance requirements of the recipient are not deemed adequate to protect the interest of the Federal Government.
(b) The Federal agency may require adequate fidelity bond coverage where the recipient lacks coverage to protect the interest of the Federal Government.
(c) Where bonds, insurance, or both are required in the situations described above, the bonds and insurance must be obtained from companies holding certificates of authority issued by the U.S. Department of Treasury (see 31 CFR part 223).

§ 200.305 Federal payment.

(a) Payments for States. Payments for States are governed by Treasury-State Cash Management Improvement Act (CMIA) agreements and default procedures codified at 31 CFR part 205 and Treasury Financial Manual (TFM) 4A-2000, “Overall Disbursing Rules for All Federal Agencies.”
(b) Payments for recipients and subrecipients other than States. For recipients and subrecipients other than States, payment methods must minimize the time elapsing between the transfer of funds from the Federal agency or the pass-through entity and the disbursement of funds by the recipient or subrecipient regardless of whether the payment is made by electronic funds transfer or by other means. See § 200.302(b)(6). Except as noted in this part, the Federal agency must require recipients to use only OMB-approved, government-wide information collections to request payment.
(1) The recipient or subrecipient must be paid in advance, provided it maintains or demonstrates the willingness to maintain both written procedures that minimize the time elapsing between the transfer of funds and disbursement by the recipient or subrecipient, and financial management systems that meet the standards for fund control and accountability as established in this part. Advance payments to a recipient or subrecipient must be limited to the minimum amounts needed and be timed with actual, immediate cash requirements of the recipient or subrecipient in carrying out the purpose of the approved program or project. The timing and amount of advance payments must be as close as is administratively feasible to the actual disbursements by the recipient or subrecipient for direct program or project costs and the proportionate share of any allowable indirect costs. The recipient or subrecipient must make timely payments to contractors in accordance with the contract provisions.
(2) Whenever possible, advance payment requests by the recipient or subrecipient must be consolidated to cover anticipated cash needs for all Federal awards received by the recipient from the awarding Federal agency or pass-through entity.
(i) Advance payment mechanisms must comply with 31 CFR part 208 and include, but are not limited to, Treasury checks and electronic funds transfers.
(ii) Recipients and subrecipients must be authorized to submit payment requests as often as necessary when electronic fund transfers are used or at least monthly when electronic transfers are not used. See Electronic Fund Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 1693-1693r).
(3) Reimbursement is preferred when the requirements in paragraph (b) cannot be met, when the Federal agency or pass-through entity sets a specific condition per § 200.208, when requested by the recipient or subrecipient, when a Federal award is for construction, or when a significant portion of the construction project is accomplished through private market financing or Federal loans and the Federal award constitutes a minor portion of the project. When the reimbursement method is used, the Federal agency or pass-through entity must make payment within 30 calendar days after receipt of the payment request unless the Federal agency or pass-through entity reasonably believes the request to be improper.
(4) If the recipient or subrecipient cannot meet the criteria for advance payments and the Federal agency or pass-through entity has determined that reimbursement is not feasible because the recipient or subrecipient lacks sufficient working capital, the Federal agency or pass-through entity may provide cash on a working capital advance basis. Under this procedure, the Federal agency or pass-through entity must advance cash payments to the recipient or subrecipient to cover its estimated disbursement needs for an initial period generally aligned to the recipient's or subrecipient's disbursing cycle. After that, the Federal agency or pass-through entity must reimburse the recipient or subrecipient for its actual cash disbursements. Use of the working capital advance payment method requires that the pass-through entity provide timely advance payments to any subrecipients to meet the subrecipient's actual cash disbursements. The pass-through entity must not use the working capital advance method of payment if the reason for using this method is the unwillingness or inability of the pass-through entity to provide timely advance payments to the subrecipient to meet the subrecipient's actual cash disbursements.
(5) If available, the recipient or subrecipient must disburse funds available from program income (including repayments to a revolving fund), rebates, refunds, contract settlements, audit recoveries, and interest earned on Federal funds before requesting additional cash payments.
(6) Payments for allowable costs must not be withheld at any time during the period of performance unless required by Federal statute, regulations, or in one of the following instances:
(i) The recipient or subrecipient has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the Federal award; or
(ii) The recipient or subrecipient is delinquent in a debt to the United States as defined in OMB Circular A-129, “Policies for Federal Credit Programs and Non-Tax Receivables.” Under such conditions, the Federal agency or pass-through entity may, after providing reasonable notice, withhold payments to the recipient or subrecipient for financial obligations incurred after a specified date until the conditions are corrected or the debt is repaid to the Federal Government.
(7) A payment withheld for failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the Federal award must be released to the recipient or subrecipient upon subsequent compliance. When a Federal award is suspended, payment adjustments must be made in accordance with § 200.343.
(8) A payment must not be made to a recipient or subrecipient for amounts that the recipient or subrecipient withholds from contractors to assure satisfactory completion of work. Payment must be made when the recipient or subrecipient disburses the withheld funds to the contractors or to escrow accounts established to ensure satisfactory completion of work.
(9) The Federal agency or pass-through entity must not require separate depository accounts for funds provided to the recipient or subrecipient or establish any eligibility requirements for depositories. However, the recipient or subrecipient must be able to account for all Federal funds received, obligated, and expended.
(10) Advance payments of Federal funds must be deposited and maintained in insured accounts whenever possible.
(11) The recipient or subrecipient must maintain advance payments of Federal funds in interest-bearing accounts unless one of the following applies:
(i) The recipient or subrecipient receives less than $250,000 in Federal funding per year;
(ii) The best available interest-bearing account would not reasonably be expected to earn interest in excess of $500 per year on Federal cash balances;
(iii) The depository would require an average or minimum balance so high that it would not be feasible with the expected Federal and non-Federal cash resources;
(iv) A foreign government or banking system prohibits or precludes interest-bearing accounts; or
(v) An interest-bearing account is not readily accessible (for example, due to public or political unrest in a foreign country).
(12) The recipient or subrecipient may retain up to $500 per year of interest earned on Federal funds to use for administrative expenses of the recipient or subrecipient. Any additional interest earned on Federal funds must be returned annually to the Department of Health and Human Services Payment Management System (PMS) through either the Automated Clearing House (ACH) network or a Fedwire Funds Service payment. All interest in excess of $500 per year must be returned to PMS regardless of whether the recipient or subrecipient was paid through PMS. Instructions for returning interest can be found at https://pms.psc.gov/grant-recipients/returning-funds-interest.html.
(13) All other Federal funds must be returned to the payment system of the Federal agency. Returns should follow the instructions provided by the Federal agency. All returns to PMS should follow the instructions provided at https://pms.psc.gov/grant-recipients/returning-funds-interest.html.

§ 200.306 Cost sharing.

(a) Voluntary committed cost sharing is not expected under Federal research grants. The Federal agency may not use voluntary committed cost sharing as a factor during the merit review of applications or proposals for Federal research grants unless authorized by Federal statutes or agency regulations and specified in the notice of funding opportunity. Federal agencies are also discouraged from using voluntary committed cost sharing as a factor during the merit review of applications for other Federal financial assistance programs. If voluntary committed cost sharing is used for this purpose for other programs, the notice of funding opportunity must specify how an applicant's proposed cost sharing will be considered. See §§ 200.414, 200.204, and Appendix I.
(b) For all Federal awards, the Federal agency or pass-through entity must accept any cost sharing funds (including cash and third-party in-kind contributions, and also including funds committed by the recipient, subrecipient, or third parties) as part of the recipient's or subrecipient's contributions to a program when the funds:
(1) Are verifiable in the recipient's or subrecipient's records;
(2) Are not included as contributions for any other Federal award;
(3) Are necessary and reasonable for achieving the objectives of the Federal award;
(4) Are allowable under subpart E;
(5) Are not paid by the Federal Government under another Federal award, except where the program's Federal authorizing statute specifically provides that Federal funds made available for the program can be applied to cost sharing requirements of other Federal programs;
(6) Are provided for in the approved budget when required by the Federal agency; and
(7) Conform to other applicable provisions of this part.
(c) Unrecovered indirect costs, including indirect costs on cost sharing, may be included as part of cost sharing with the prior approval of the Federal agency or pass-through entity. Unrecovered indirect cost means the difference between the amount charged to the Federal award and the amount which could have been charged to the Federal award under the recipient's or subrecipient's approved indirect cost rate.
(d) Values for recipient or subrecipient contributions of services and property must be established in accordance with the cost principles in subpart E. When a Federal agency or pass-through entity authorizes the recipient or subrecipient to donate buildings or land for construction/facilities acquisition projects or long-term use, the value of the donated property for cost sharing must be the lesser of paragraph (d)(1) or (2) below.
(1) The value of the remaining life of the property recorded in the recipient's or subrecipient's accounting records at the time of donation.
(2) The current fair market value. However, when there is sufficient justification, the Federal agency or pass-through may approve using the current fair market value of the donated property, even if it exceeds the value described in paragraph (d)(1) at the time of donation.
(e) Volunteer services furnished by third-party professional and technical personnel, consultants, and other labor may be counted as cost sharing if the service is necessary for the program. Rates for third-party volunteer services must be consistent with those paid for similar work by the recipient or subrecipient. When the required skills are not found in the recipient's or subrecipient's workforce, rates must be consistent with those paid for similar work in the labor market where the recipient or subrecipient competes for the services involved. In either case, fringe benefits that are allowable, allocable, and reasonable may be included in the valuation.
(f) When a third-party organization furnishes the services of an employee, these services must be valued at the employee's regular rate of pay plus an amount of fringe benefits that is reasonable, necessary, allocable, and otherwise allowable, and indirect costs at either the third-party organization's approved federally-negotiated indirect cost rate or, a rate in accordance with § 200.414(d) provided these services employ the same skill(s) for which the employee is normally paid. Where donated services are treated as indirect costs, indirect cost rates will separate the value of the donated services so that reimbursement for the donated services will not be made.
(g) Donated property from third parties may include items such as equipment, office supplies, laboratory supplies, or workshop and classroom supplies. The assessed value of donated property included as cost sharing must not exceed the property's fair market value at the time of the donation.
(h) The method used for determining the value of donated equipment, buildings, and land for which title passes to the recipient or subrecipient may differ according to the following:
(1) If the purpose of the Federal award is to assist the recipient or subrecipient in acquiring equipment, buildings, or land, the aggregate value of the donated property may be claimed as cost sharing.
(2) If the purpose of the Federal award is to support activities that require the use of equipment, buildings, or land, only depreciation charges for equipment and buildings may be made. However, the fair market value of equipment or other capital assets and fair rental charges for land may be allowed if provided in the terms and conditions of the Federal award. See § 200.420.
(i) The value of donated property must be determined in accordance with the accounting policies of the recipient or subrecipient with the following qualifications:
(1) The value of donated land and buildings must not exceed its fair market value at the time of donation to the recipient or subrecipient as established by an independent appraiser (for example, certified real property appraiser or General Services Administration representative) and certified by a responsible official of the recipient or subrecipient as required by the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended, (42 U.S.C. 4601-4655) except as provided in the implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24, “Uniform Relocation Assistance And Real Property Acquisition For Federal And Federally-Assisted Programs.”
(2) The value of donated equipment must not exceed the fair market value at the time of donation.
(3) The value of donated space must not exceed the fair rental value of comparable space as established by an independent appraisal of comparable space and facilities in a privately-owned building in the same locality.
(4) The value of loaned equipment must not exceed its fair rental value.
(j) The fair market value of third-party in-kind contributions must be documented and, to the extent feasible, supported by the same methods used internally by the recipient or subrecipient.
(k) For institutions of higher education (IHE), voluntary uncommitted cost sharing should be treated differently from mandatory or voluntary committed cost sharing. Voluntary uncommitted cost sharing should not be included in the organized research base for computing the indirect cost rate or reflected in any allocation of indirect costs. Voluntary uncommitted cost sharing includes faculty-donated additional time above that agreed to as part of the award. See OMB memorandum M-01-06, dated January 5, 2001, Clarification of OMB A-21 Treatment of Voluntary Uncommitted Cost Sharing and Tuition Remission Costs.

§ 200.307 Program income.

(a) General. The recipient or subrecipient is encouraged to earn income to defray program costs when appropriate. Program income must be used for the original purpose of the Federal award. Program income earned during the period of performance may only be used for costs incurred during the period of performance or allowable closeout costs. See § 200.472(b). Program income must be expended prior to requesting additional Federal funds. Program income exceeding amounts specified in the Federal award may be added to or deducted from the total allowable costs in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Federal award.
(b) Use of program income. There are three methods of applying program income: deduction; addition; and cost-sharing. The Federal agency should specify what program income method(s) will be used in the terms and conditions of the Federal award. The deduction method will be used if the Federal agency does not specify a method for applying program income. When no program income method is specified in the Federal award, prior approval is required to use the addition or cost sharing methods. However, the addition method will be used when no method is specified for awards made to institutions of higher education (IHE) and nonprofit research institutions. In specifying alternatives to the deduction and addition methods, the Federal agency may distinguish between income earned by the recipient and income earned by subrecipients as well as between the sources, kinds, or amounts of income.
(1) Deduction. Program income is deducted from the total allowable costs, reducing the overall total amount of the Federal award.
(2) Addition. Program income is added to the total allowable costs, increasing the overall total amount of the Federal award.
(3) Cost sharing. Program income is used to meet the Federal award's cost sharing requirement.
(c) Income after the period of performance. There are no requirements governing the disposition of program income earned after the end of the period of performance of the Federal award unless stipulated in the Federal agency regulations or the terms and conditions of the Federal award. The Federal agency may negotiate agreements with recipients regarding appropriate uses of income earned after the end of the period of performance as part of the closeout process. See § 200.344.
(d) Cost of generating program income. If authorized by Federal regulations or the Federal award, costs incidental to generating program income may be deducted from gross income to determine program income, provided these costs have not been charged to the Federal award.
(e) Not considered program income. The following are not considered program income unless specified in Federal statutes, regulations, or the terms and conditions of the Federal award:
(1) Governmental revenues. Taxes, special assessments, levies, fines, and similar revenues the recipient or subrecipient raised.
(2) Property. Proceeds from the sale of real property, equipment, or supplies. The proceeds must be handled in accordance with the requirements of the Property Standards of §§ 200.311, 200.313, 200.314, or as explicitly identified in Federal statutes, regulations, or the terms and conditions of the Federal award.
(3) License fees and royalties. License fees and royalties for copyrighted material, patents, patent applications, trademarks, and inventions made under the Federal award subject to 37 CFR part 401.

§ 200.308 Revision of budget and program plans.

(a) Approved budget in general. The approved budget for the Federal award summarizes the financial aspects of the project or program as approved during the Federal award process. It may include the Federal share and non-Federal share or only the Federal share, as determined by the Federal agency or pass-through entity.
(b) Deviations from approved budget. The recipient or subrecipient must report deviations from the approved budget, project or program scope, or objective(s) in accordance with § 200.329. The recipient or subrecipient must request prior approvals from the Federal agency or pass-through entity for budget and program plan revisions in accordance with this section.
(c) Requesting approval for budget revisions. When requesting approval for budget revisions, the recipient or subrecipient must use the same format for budget information that was used in their application, except if the Federal agency has approved an alternative format. Alternative formats may include the use of electronic systems, email, or other agency-approved mechanisms that document the request.
(d) Federal agency or pass-through entity review. The Federal agency or pass-through entity must review the request for budget or program plan revision and should notify the recipient or subrecipient whether the revisions have been approved within 30 days of receipt of the request. The Federal agency or pass-through entity must inform the recipient or subrecipient in writing when a decision can be expected if more than 30 days is required for a review.
(e) Limitation on other prior approval requirements. Unless specified in this guidance, the Federal agency must not impose additional prior approval requirements without OMB approval. See also §§ 200.102 and 200.407.
(f) Revisions Requiring Prior Approval. A recipient or subrecipient must request prior written approval from the Federal agency or pass-through entity for the following program and budget-related reasons:
(1) Change in the scope or the objective of the project or program (even if there is no associated budget revision requiring prior written approval).
(2) Change in key personnel (including employees and contractors) that are identified by name or position in the Federal award.
(3) The disengagement from a project for more than three months, or a 25 percent reduction in time and effort devoted to the Federal award over the course of the period of performance, by the approved project director or principal investigator.
(4) The inclusion, unless waived by the Federal agency, of costs that require prior approval in accordance with subpart E as applicable.
(5) The transfer of funds budgeted for participant support costs to other budget categories.
(6) Subaward activities not proposed in the application and approved in the Federal award. A change of subrecipient only requires prior approval if the Federal agency or pass-through entity includes the requirement in the terms and conditions of the Federal award. In general, a Federal agency or pass-through entity should not require prior approval of a change of subrecipient unless the inclusion was a determining factor in the merit review or eligibility process. This requirement does not apply to procurement transactions for goods and services.
(7) Changes in the total approved cost-sharing amount.
(8) The need arises for additional Federal funds to complete the project. Before providing approval, the Federal agency must ensure that adequate funds are available to avoid a violation of the Antideficiency Act.
(9) Transferring funds between the construction and non-construction work under a Federal award.
(10) A no-cost extension (meaning, an extension of time that does not require the obligation of additional Federal funds) of the period of performance, other than any one-time extension authorized by the Federal agency in accordance with paragraph (g)(2). All requests for no-cost extensions should be submitted at least 10 calendar days before the conclusion of the period of performance. The Federal agency may approve multiple no-cost extensions under a Federal award if not prohibited by Federal statute or regulation.
(g) Waiver of certain prior approvals. Except for the requirements listed in paragraphs (f)(1) through (10), the Federal agency is authorized to waive other cost-related and administrative prior written approval requirements contained in subparts D and E. Such waivers may include authorizing recipients to do one or more of the following:
(1) Pre-award costs. Incur project costs 90 calendar days before the Federal award date. Expenses incurred more than 90 calendar days before the Federal award date require prior approval of the Federal agency. All costs incurred before the Federal award date are at the recipient's own risk (for example, the Federal agency is not required to reimburse such costs if the recipient does not receive the Federal award or if the Federal award is less than anticipated and inadequate to cover such costs). Pre-award costs must be charged to the initial budget period of the Federal award unless otherwise specified by the Federal agency. See also § 200.458.
(2) One-time extensions. Initiate a one-time extension of the period of performance by up to 12 months unless one or more of the conditions outlined in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section apply. Prior approval is not required if a recipient is authorized in the terms and conditions of the Federal award to initiate a one-time extension. However, the recipient must notify the Federal agency in writing with the supporting justification and a revised period of performance at least 10 calendar days before the conclusion of the period of performance. A one-time extension may not be exercised for the sole purpose of using unobligated balances. This paragraph does not preclude the Federal agency from approving further no-cost extensions to the Federal award. One-time extensions require prior approval from the Federal agency when:
(i) The terms and conditions of the Federal award prohibit the extension;
(ii) The extension requires additional Federal funds; or
(iii) The extension involves any change in the approved scope of the project.
(3) Unobligated Balances. Carry forward unobligated balances to subsequent budget periods.
(h) Prior approvals for research awards. The prior approval requirements for the actions described in paragraph (g) of this section are automatically waived for Federal awards that support research unless stipulated in the Federal agency's regulations or terms and conditions of the Federal award. However, one-time extensions require the Federal agency's prior approval when one of the conditions in paragraph (g)(2) of this section applies.
(i) Transfer of funds. The Federal agency must not permit a transfer of funds that would cause any Federal appropriation to be used for purposes other than those consistent with the appropriation. The Federal agency may also, at its option, restrict the transfer of funds among direct cost categories (for example, personnel, travel, and supplies) or programs, functions, and activities when:
(1) The Federal share of the Federal award exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold; and
(2) The cumulative amount of a transfer exceeds or is expected to exceed 10 percent of the total budget, including cost share, as last approved by the Federal agency.

§ 200.309 Modifications to Period of Performance.

When the Federal agency or pass-through entity approves an extension to a Federal award, or if a recipient extends under § 200.308(g)(2), the period of performance will be amended to end at the completion of the extension. If termination occurs, the period of performance will be amended to end upon the effective date of termination. The start date of a renewal award begins a new and distinct period of performance.

Property Standards

§ 200.310 Insurance coverage.

The recipient or subrecipient must, at a minimum, provide the equivalent insurance coverage for real property and equipment acquired or improved with Federal funds as provided to property and equipment owned by the recipient or subrecipient. Insurance is not required for Federally owned property unless required by the terms and conditions of the Federal award.

§ 200.311 Real property.

(a) Title. Subject to the requirements and conditions set forth in this section, title to real property acquired or improved under the Federal award will vest upon acquisition in the recipient or subrecipient.
(b) Use. Except as otherwise provided by Federal statutes or the Federal agency, real property must be used for the originally authorized purpose as long as it is needed for that purpose. While the property is being used for the originally authorized purpose, the recipient or subrecipient must not dispose of or encumber its title or other interests except as provided by the Federal agency. Easements for utility, cable, and similar services that benefit the real property and are consistent with the authorized use are not considered an encumbrance.
(c) Appraisals. When an appraisal of real property is required and obtained by the recipient or subrecipient, it must be conducted by an independent appraiser (for example, certified real property appraiser or General Services Administration representative) and certified by a responsible official of the recipient or subrecipient as required by the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended, (42 U.S.C. 4601-4655) except as provided in the implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24, “Uniform Relocation Assistance And Real Property Acquisition For Federal And Federally-Assisted Programs.”
(d) Disposition. When real property is no longer needed for the originally authorized purpose, the recipient or subrecipient must obtain disposition instructions from the Federal agency or pass-through entity. The instructions must specify one of the following disposition methods:
(1) Retain title after compensating the Federal agency. When the recipient or subrecipient retains title to the property, it must pay the Federal agency an amount calculated by multiplying the percentage of the Federal agency's contribution towards the original purchase (and costs of any improvements) by the current fair market value of the property. However, in situations where the recipient or subrecipient is disposing of real property acquired or improved with the Federal award and acquiring replacement real property under the same Federal award, the net proceeds from the disposition may be used as an offset to the cost of the replacement property.
(2) Sell the property and compensate the Federal agency. When a recipient or subrecipient sells the property, it must pay the Federal agency an amount calculated by multiplying the percentage of the Federal agency's contribution towards the original purchase (and cost of any improvements) by the proceeds of the sale after deducting any actual and reasonable expenses paid to sell or fix up the property for sale. When the Federal award has not been closed out, the net proceeds from the sale may be offset against the original cost of the property. When directed to sell the property, the recipient or subrecipient must sell the property utilizing procedures that provide for competition to the extent practicable and that result in the highest possible return.
(3) Transfer title to the Federal agency or a third party designated/approved by the Federal agency. When a recipient or subrecipient transfers title to the property to a Federal agency or third party designated or approved by the Federal agency, the recipient or subrecipient is entitled to be paid an amount calculated by multiplying the percentage of the recipient's or subrecipient's contribution towards the original purchase of the real property (and cost of any improvements) by the current fair market value of the property.

§ 200.312 Federally owned and exempt property.

(a) Title to Federally owned property remains vested in the Federal Government. The recipient or subrecipient must submit an inventory listing of Federally owned property in its custody to the Federal agency or pass-through entity on an annual basis. The recipient or subrecipient must request disposition instructions from the Federal agency or pass-through entity upon completion of the Federal award or when the property is no longer needed.
(b) If the Federal agency has no further need for the property, it must declare the property excess and report it for disposal to the appropriate Federal disposal authority unless the Federal agency has statutory authority to dispose of the property by alternative methods (for example, the authority provided by the Federal Technology Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 3710(i)). The Federal agency or pass-through entity must issue appropriate instructions to the recipient or subrecipient.
(c) Exempt property means property acquired under the Federal award where the Federal agency has chosen to vest title to the property to the recipient or subrecipient without further responsibility to the Federal Government. The Federal agency may only exercise this option when permitted by Federal statute and set forth in the terms and conditions of the Federal award. Absent statutory authority and specific terms and conditions of the Federal award, the title to exempt property acquired under the Federal award remains with the Federal Government.

§ 200.313 Equipment.

See also § 200.439.
(a) Title. Title to equipment acquired under the Federal award will vest upon acquisition in the recipient or subrecipient subject to the conditions of this section. This title must be a conditional title unless a Federal statute specifically authorizes the Federal agency to vest title in the recipient or subrecipient without further responsibility to the Federal Government (and the Federal agency elects to do so). A conditional title means a clear title is withheld by the Federal agency until conditions and requirements specified in the terms and conditions of a Federal award have been fulfilled. Title for equipment vested in a recipient or subrecipient is subject to the following conditions:
(1) Use the equipment for the authorized purposes of the project during the period of performance or until the property is no longer needed for the purposes of the project.
(2) While the equipment is being used for the originally-authorized purpose, the recipient or subrecipient must not dispose of or encumber its title or other interests without the approval of the Federal agency or pass-through entity.
(3) Use and dispose of the property in accordance with paragraphs (b), (c), and (e) of this section.
(b) General. A State must use, manage and dispose of equipment acquired under a Federal award in accordance with State laws and procedures. Indian Tribes must use, manage, and dispose of equipment acquired under a Federal award in accordance with tribal laws and procedures. If such laws and procedures do not exist, Indian Tribes must follow the guidance in this section. Other recipients and subrecipients, including subrecipients of a State or Indian Tribe, must follow paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section.
(c) Use. (1) The recipient or subrecipient must use equipment for the project or program for which it was acquired and for as long as needed, whether or not the project or program continues to be supported by the Federal award. The recipient or subrecipient must not encumber the equipment without prior approval of the Federal agency or pass-through entity. The Federal agency may require the submission of the applicable common forms for reporting on equipment. When no longer needed for the original project or program, the equipment may be used in other activities in the following order of priority:
(i) Activities under other Federal awards from the Federal agency that funded the original program or project; then
(ii) Activities under Federal awards from other Federal agencies. These activities include consolidated equipment for information technology systems.
(2) During the time that equipment is used on the project or program for which it was acquired, the recipient or subrecipient must also make the equipment available for use on other programs or projects supported by the Federal Government, provided that such use will not interfere with the purpose for which it was originally acquired. First preference for other use of the equipment must be given to other programs or projects supported by the Federal agency that financed the equipment. Second preference must be given to programs or projects under Federal awards from other Federal agencies. Use for non-federally-funded projects is also permissible, provided such use will not interfere with the purpose for which it was originally acquired. The recipient or subrecipient should consider charging user fees as appropriate.
(3) Notwithstanding the encouragement in § 200.307 to earn program income, the recipient or subrecipient must not use equipment acquired with the Federal award to provide services for a fee that is less than a private company would charge for similar services unless specifically authorized by Federal statute. This restriction is effective as long as the Federal Government retains an interest in the equipment.
(4) When acquiring replacement equipment, the recipient or subrecipient may either trade-in or sell the equipment and use the proceeds to offset the cost of the replacement equipment.
(d) Management requirements. Regardless of whether equipment is acquired in part or its entirety under the Federal award, the recipient or subrecipient must manage equipment (including replacement equipment) utilizing procedures that meet the following requirements:
(1) Property records must include a description of the property, a serial number or another identification number, the source of funding for the property (including the FAIN), the title holder, the acquisition date, the cost of the property, the percentage of the Federal agency contribution towards the original purchase, the location, use and condition of the property, and any disposition data including the date of disposal and sale price of the property. The recipient and subrecipient are responsible for maintaining and updating property records when there is a change in the status of the property.
(2) A physical inventory of the property must be conducted, and the results must be reconciled with the property records at least once every two years.
(3) A control system must be in place to ensure safeguards for preventing property loss, damage, or theft. Any loss, damage, or theft of equipment must be investigated. The recipient or subrecipient must notify the Federal agency or pass-through entity of any loss, damage, or theft of equipment that will have an impact on the program.
(4) Regular maintenance procedures must be in place to ensure the property is in proper working condition.
(5) If the recipient or subrecipient is authorized or required to sell the property, proper sales procedures must be in place to ensure the highest possible return.
(e) Disposition. When equipment acquired under a Federal award is no longer needed for the original project, program, or for other activities currently or previously supported by a Federal agency, the recipient or subrecipient must request disposition instructions from the Federal agency or pass-through entity if required by the terms and conditions of the Federal award. Disposition of the equipment will be made as follows, in accordance with Federal agency or pass-through entity disposition instructions:
(1) Equipment with a current fair market value of $10,000 or less (per unit) may be retained, sold, or otherwise disposed of with no further responsibility to the Federal agency or pass-through entity.
(2) Except as provided in § 200.312(b), or if the Federal agency or pass-through entity fails to provide requested disposition instructions within 120 days, items of equipment with a current fair market value in excess of $10,000 (per-unit) may be retained or sold by the recipient or subrecipient. However, the Federal agency is entitled to an amount calculated by multiplying the percentage of the Federal agency's contribution towards the original purchase by the current market value or proceeds from the sale. If the equipment is sold, the Federal agency or pass-through entity may permit the recipient or subrecipient to retain, from the Federal share, $1,000 of the proceeds to cover expenses associated with the selling and handling of the equipment.
(3) The recipient or subrecipient may transfer title to the property to the Federal Government or to an eligible third party provided that the recipient or subrecipient must be entitled to compensation for its attributable percentage of the current fair market value of the property.
(4) In cases where a recipient or subrecipient fails to take appropriate disposition actions, the Federal agency or pass-through entity may direct the recipient or subrecipient to take disposition actions.
(f) Equipment retention. When included in the terms and conditions of the Federal award, the Federal agency may permit the recipient to retain equipment, or authorize a pass-through entity to permit the subrecipient to retain equipment, with no further obligation to the Federal Government unless prohibited by Federal statute or regulation.

§ 200.314 Supplies.

See also § 200.453.
(a) Title to supplies acquired under the Federal award will vest upon acquisition in the recipient or subrecipient. When there is a residual inventory of unused supplies exceeding $10,000 in aggregate value at the end of the period of performance, and the supplies are not needed for any other Federal award, the recipient or subrecipient may retain or sell the unused supplies. Unused supplies means supplies that are in new condition, not having been used or opened before. The aggregate value of unused supplies consists of all supply types, not just like-item supplies. The Federal agency or pass-through entity is entitled to compensation in an amount calculated by multiplying the percentage of the Federal agency's or pass-through entity's contribution towards the cost of the original purchase(s) by the current market value or proceeds from the sale. If the supplies are sold, the Federal agency or pass-through entity may permit the recipient or subrecipient to retain, from the Federal share, $1,000 of the proceeds to cover expenses associated with the selling and handling of the supplies.
(b) Unless expressly authorized by Federal statute, the recipient or subrecipient must not use supplies acquired with the Federal award to provide services for a fee that is less than a private company would charge for similar services. This restriction is effective as long as the Federal Government retains an interest in the supplies or as authorized by Federal statute.

§ 200.315 Intangible property.

(a) Title to intangible property acquired under a Federal award vests upon acquisition in the recipient or subrecipient. The recipient or subrecipient must use that intangible property for the originally authorized purpose and must not encumber the property without the approval of the Federal agency or pass-through entity. When no longer needed for the originally authorized purpose, disposition of the intangible property must occur in accordance with the provisions in § 200.313(e).
(b) To the extent permitted by law, the recipient or subrecipient may copyright any work that is subject to copyright and was developed, or for which ownership was acquired, under a Federal award. The Federal agency reserves a royalty-free, nonexclusive, and irrevocable right to reproduce, publish, or otherwise use the work for Federal purposes and to authorize others to do so. This includes the right to require recipients and subrecipients to make such works available through agency-designated public access repositories.
(c) The recipient or subrecipient is subject to applicable regulations governing patents and inventions, including government-wide regulations in 37 CFR part 401.
(d) The Federal Government has the right to:
(1) Obtain, reproduce, publish, or otherwise use the data produced under a Federal award; and
(2) Authorize others to receive, reproduce, publish, or otherwise use the data for Federal purposes.
(e)(1) The recipient or subrecipient must provide research data relating to published research findings produced under the Federal award and that were used by the Federal Government in developing an agency action that has the force and effect of law if requested by the Federal agency in response to a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request. When the Federal agency obtains the research data solely in response to a FOIA request, the Federal agency may charge the requester a fee for the cost of obtaining the research data. This fee should reflect the costs incurred by the Federal agency and the recipient or subrecipient. This fee is in addition to any fees the Federal agency may assess under the FOIA (5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4)(A)).
(2) Published research findings mean:
(i) Research findings published in a peer-reviewed scientific or technical journal; or
(ii) Research findings publicly cited by a Federal agency in developing an agency action that has the force and effect of law.
(3) Research data means the recorded factual material commonly accepted in the scientific community as necessary to validate research findings. Research data does not include any of the following:
(i) Preliminary analyses, drafts of scientific papers, plans for future research, peer reviews, or communications with colleagues. This “recorded” material excludes physical objects (for example, laboratory samples).
(ii) Trade secrets, commercial information, materials necessary to be held confidential by a researcher until they are published, or similar information which is protected under law; and
(iii) Personnel, medical, and other personally identifiable information that, if disclosed, would constitute an invasion of personal privacy. Information that could identify a particular person in a research study is not considered research data.
(f) Federal agencies should work with recipients to maximize public access to Federally funded research results and data in a manner that protects data providers' confidentiality, privacy, and security. Agencies should provide guidance to recipients to make restricted-access data available through a variety of mechanisms. FOIA may not be the most appropriate mechanism for providing access to intangible property, including Federally funded research results and data.

§ 200.316 Property trust relationship.

Real property, equipment, and intangible property acquired or improved with the Federal award must be held in trust by the recipient or subrecipient as trustee for the beneficiaries of the project or program under which the property was acquired or improved. The Federal agency or pass-through entity may require the recipient or subrecipient to record liens or other appropriate notices of record to indicate that personal or real property has been acquired or improved with a Federal award and that use and disposition conditions apply to the property.

Procurement Standards

§ 200.317 Procurements by States and Indian Tribes.

When conducting procurement transactions under a Federal award, a State or Indian Tribe must follow the same policies and procedures it uses for procurements with non-Federal funds. If such policies and procedures do not exist, States and Indian Tribes must follow the procurement standards in §§ 200.318 through 200.327. In addition to its own policies and procedures, a State or Indian Tribe must also comply with the following procurement standards: §§ 200.321, 200.322, 200.323, and 200.327. All other recipients and subrecipients, including subrecipients of a State or Indian Tribe, must follow the procurement standards in §§ 200.318 through 200.327.

§ 200.318 General procurement standards.

(a) Documented procurement procedures. The recipient or subrecipient must maintain and use documented procedures for procurement transactions under a Federal award or subaward, including for acquisition of property or services. These documented procurement procedures must be consistent with State, local, and tribal laws and regulations and the standards identified in §§ 200.317 through 200.327.
(b) Oversight of contractors. Recipients and subrecipients must maintain oversight to ensure that contractors perform in accordance with the terms, conditions, and specifications of their contracts or purchase orders. See also § 200.501(h).
(c) Conflicts of interest. (1) The recipient or subrecipient must maintain written standards of conduct covering conflicts of interest and governing the actions of its employees engaged in the selection, award, and administration of contracts. No employee, officer, agent, or board member with a real or apparent conflict of interest may participate in the selection, award, or administration of a contract supported by the Federal award. A conflict of interest includes when the employee, officer, agent, or board member, any member of their immediate family, their partner, or an organization that employs or is about to employ any of the parties indicated herein, has a financial or other interest in or a tangible personal benefit from an entity considered for a contract. An employee, officer, agent, and board member of the recipient or subrecipient may neither solicit nor accept gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from contractors. However, the recipient or subrecipient may set standards for situations where the financial interest is not substantial or a gift is an unsolicited item of nominal value. The recipient's or subrecipient's standards of conduct must also provide for disciplinary actions to be applied for violations by its employees, officers, agents, or board members.
(2) If the recipient or subrecipient has a parent, affiliate, or subsidiary organization that is not a State, local government, or Indian Tribe, the recipient or subrecipient must also maintain written standards of conduct covering organizational conflicts of interest. Organizational conflicts of interest mean that because of relationships with a parent company, affiliate, or subsidiary organization, the recipient or subrecipient is unable or appears to be unable to be impartial in conducting a procurement action involving a related organization.
(d) Avoidance of unnecessary or duplicative items. The recipient's or subrecipient's procedures must avoid the acquisition of unnecessary or duplicative items. Consideration should be given to consolidating or breaking out procurements to obtain a more economical purchase. When appropriate, an analysis should be made between leasing and purchasing property or equipment to determine the most economical approach.
(e) Procurement arrangements using strategic sourcing. When appropriate for the procurement or use of common or shared goods and services, recipients and subrecipients are encouraged to enter into State and local intergovernmental agreements or inter-entity agreements for procurement transactions. These or similar procurement arrangements using strategic sourcing may foster greater economy and efficiency. Documented procurement actions of this type (using strategic sourcing, shared services, and other similar procurement arrangements) will meet the competition requirements of this part.
(f) Use of excess and surplus Federal property. The recipient or subrecipient is encouraged to use excess and surplus Federal property instead of purchasing new equipment and property when it is feasible and reduces project costs.
(g) Use of value engineering clauses. When practical, the recipient or subrecipient is encouraged to use value engineering clauses in contracts for construction projects of sufficient size to offer reasonable opportunities for cost reductions. Value engineering means analyzing each contract item or task to ensure its essential function is provided at the overall lowest cost.
(h) Responsible contractors. The recipient or subrecipient must award contracts only to responsible contractors that possess the ability to perform successfully under the terms and conditions of a proposed contract. The recipient or subrecipient must consider contractor integrity, public policy compliance, proper classification of employees (see the Fair Labor Standards Act, 29 U.S.C. 201, chapter 8), past performance record, and financial and technical resources when conducting a procurement transaction. See also § 200.214.
(i) Procurement records. The recipient or subrecipient must maintain records sufficient to detail the history of each procurement transaction. These records must include the rationale for the procurement method, contract type selection, contractor selection or rejection, and the basis for the contract price.
(j) Time-and-materials type contracts. (1) The recipient or subrecipient may use a time-and-materials type contract only after a determination that no other contract is suitable and if the contract includes a ceiling price that the contractor exceeds at its own risk. Time-and-materials type contract means a contract whose cost to a recipient or subrecipient is the sum of:
(i) The actual cost of materials; and
(ii) Direct labor hours charged at fixed hourly rates that reflect wages, general and administrative expenses, and profit.
(2) Because this formula generates an open-ended contract price, a time-and-materials contract provides no positive profit incentive to the contractor for cost control or labor efficiency. Therefore, each contract must set a ceiling price that the contractor exceeds at its own risk. Further, the recipient or subrecipient awarding such a contract must assert a high degree of oversight to obtain reasonable assurance that the contractor is using efficient methods and effective cost controls.
(k) Settlement of contractual and administrative issues. The recipient or subrecipient is responsible for the settlement of all contractual and administrative issues arising out of its procurement transactions. These issues include, but are not limited to, source evaluation, protests, disputes, and claims. These standards do not relieve the recipient or subrecipient of any contractual responsibilities under its contracts. The Federal agency will not substitute its judgment for that of the recipient or subrecipient unless the matter is primarily a Federal concern. The recipient or subrecipient must report violations of law to the Federal, State, or local authority with proper jurisdiction.
(l) Examples of labor and employment practices. (1) The procurement standards in this subpart do not prohibit recipients or subrecipients from:
(i) Using Project Labor Agreements (PLAs) or similar forms of pre-hire collective bargaining agreements;
(ii) Requiring construction contractors to use hiring preferences or goals for people residing in high-poverty areas, disadvantaged communities as defined by the Justice40 Initiative (see OMB Memorandum M-21-28), or high-unemployment census tracts within a region no smaller than the county where a federally funded construction project is located. The hiring preferences or goals should be consistent with the policies and procedures of the recipient or subrecipient, and must not prohibit interstate hiring;
(iii) Requiring a contractor to use hiring preferences or goals for individuals with barriers to employment (as defined in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102(24)), including women and people from underserved communities as defined by Executive Order 14091;
(iv) Using agreements intended to ensure uninterrupted delivery of services; using agreements intended to ensure community benefits; or
(v) Offering employees of a predecessor contractor rights of first refusal under a new contract.
(2) Recipients and subrecipients may use the practices listed in paragraph (1) if consistent with the U.S. Constitution, applicable Federal statutes and regulations, the objectives and purposes of the applicable Federal financial assistance program, and other requirements of this part.

§ 200.319 Competition.

(a) All procurement transactions under the Federal award must be conducted in a manner that provides full and open competition and is consistent with the standards of this section and § 200.320.
(b) To ensure objective contractor performance and eliminate unfair competitive advantage, contractors that develop or draft specifications, requirements, statements of work, or invitations for bids must be excluded from competing on those procurements.
(c) Examples of situations that may restrict competition include, but are not limited to:
(1) Placing unreasonable requirements on firms for them to qualify to do business;
(2) Requiring unnecessary experience and excessive bonding;
(3) Noncompetitive pricing practices between firms or between affiliated companies;
(4) Noncompetitive contracts to consultants that are on retainer contracts;
(5) Organizational conflicts of interest;
(6) Specifying only a “brand name” product instead of allowing “an equal” product to be offered and describing the performance or other relevant requirements of the procurement; and
(7) Any arbitrary action in the procurement process.
(d) The recipient or subrecipient must have written procedures for procurement transactions. These procedures must ensure that all solicitations:
(1) Are made in accordance with § 200.319(b);
(2) Incorporate a clear and accurate description of the technical requirements for the property, equipment, or service being procured. The description may include a statement of the qualitative nature of the property, equipment, or service to be procured. When necessary, the description must provide minimum essential characteristics and standards to which the property, equipment, or service must conform. Detailed product specifications should be avoided if at all possible. When it is impractical or uneconomical to clearly and accurately describe the technical requirements, a “brand name or equivalent” description of features may be used to provide procurement requirements. The specific features of the named brand must be clearly stated; and
(3) Identify any additional requirements which the offerors must fulfill and all other factors that will be used in evaluating bids or proposals.
(e) The recipient or subrecipient must ensure that all prequalified lists of persons, firms, or products used in procurement transactions are current and include enough qualified sources to ensure maximum open competition. When establishing or amending prequalified lists, the recipient or subrecipient must consider objective factors that evaluate price and cost to maximize competition. The recipient or subrecipient must not preclude potential bidders from qualifying during the solicitation period.
(f) To the extent consistent with established practices and legal requirements applicable to the recipient or subrecipient, this subpart does not prohibit recipients or subrecipients from developing written procedures for procurement transactions that incorporate a scoring mechanism that rewards bidders that commit to specific numbers and types of U.S. jobs, minimum compensation, benefits, on-the-job-training for employees making work products or providing services on a contract, and other worker protections. This subpart also does not prohibit recipients and subrecipients from making inquiries of bidders about these subjects and assessing the responses. Any scoring mechanism must be consistent with the U.S. Constitution, applicable Federal statutes and regulations, and the terms and conditions of the Federal award.
(g) Noncompetitive procurements can only be awarded in accordance with § 200.320(c).

§ 200.320 Procurement methods.

There are three types of procurement methods described in this section: informal procurement methods (for micro-purchases and simplified acquisitions); formal procurement methods (through sealed bids or proposals); and noncompetitive procurement methods. For any of these methods, the recipient or subrecipient must maintain and use documented procurement procedures, consistent with the standards of this section and §§ 200.317, 200.318, and 200.319.
(a) Informal procurement methods for small purchases. These procurement methods expedite the completion of transactions, minimize administrative burdens, and reduce costs. Informal procurement methods may be used when the value of the procurement transaction under the Federal award does not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold as defined in § 200.1. Recipients and subrecipients may also establish a lower threshold. Informal procurement methods include:
(1) Micro-purchases—(i) Distribution. The aggregate amount of the procurement transaction does not exceed the micro-purchase threshold defined in § 200.1. To the extent practicable, the recipient or subrecipient should distribute micro-purchases equitably among qualified suppliers.
(ii) Micro-purchase awards. Micro-purchases may be awarded without soliciting competitive price or rate quotations if the recipient or subrecipient considers the price reasonable based on research, experience, purchase history, or other information; and maintains documents to support its conclusion. Purchase cards may be used as a method of payment for micro-purchases.
(iii) Micro-purchase thresholds. The recipient or subrecipient is responsible for determining and documenting an appropriate micro-purchase threshold based on internal controls, an evaluation of risk, and its documented procurement procedures. The micro-purchase threshold used by the recipient or subrecipient must be authorized or not prohibited under State, local, or tribal laws or regulations. The recipient or subrecipient may establish a threshold higher than the Federal threshold established in the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) in accordance with paragraphs (a)(1)(iv) and (v) of this section.
(iv) Recipient or subrecipient increase to the micro-purchase threshold up to $50,000. The recipient or subrecipient may establish a threshold higher than the micro-purchase threshold identified in the FAR in accordance with the requirements of this section. The recipient or subrecipient may self-certify a threshold up to $50,000 on an annual basis and must maintain documentation to be made available to the Federal agency or pass-through entity and auditors in accordance with § 200.334. The self-certification must include a justification, clear identification of the threshold, and supporting documentation of any of the following:
(A) A qualification as a low-risk auditee, in accordance with the criteria in § 200.520 for the most recent audit;
(B) An annual internal institutional risk assessment to identify, mitigate, and manage financial risks; or,
(C) For public institutions, a higher threshold is consistent with State law.
(v) Recipient or subrecipient increase to the micro-purchase threshold over $50,000. Micro-purchase thresholds higher than $50,000 must be approved by the cognizant agency for indirect costs. The recipient or subrecipient must submit a request that includes the requirements in paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section. The increased threshold is valid until any factor that was relied on in the establishment and rationale of the threshold changes.
(2) Simplified acquisitions—(i) Simplified acquisition procedures. The aggregate dollar amount of the procurement transaction is higher than the micro-purchase threshold but does not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. If simplified acquisition procedures are used, price or rate quotations must be obtained from an adequate number of qualified sources. Unless specified by the Federal agency, the recipient or subrecipient may exercise judgment in determining what number is adequate.
(ii) Simplified acquisition thresholds. The recipient or subrecipient is responsible for determining an appropriate simplified acquisition threshold based on internal controls, an evaluation of risk, and its documented procurement procedures, which may be lower than, but must not exceed, the threshold established in the FAR.
(b) Formal procurement methods. Formal procurement methods are required when the value of the procurement transaction under a Federal award exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold of the recipient or subrecipient. Formal procurement methods are competitive and require public notice. The following formal methods of procurement are used for procurement transactions above the simplified acquisition threshold determined by the recipient or subrecipient in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section:
(1) Sealed bids. This is a procurement method in which bids are publicly solicited through an invitation and a firm fixed-price contract (lump sum or unit price) is awarded to the responsible bidder whose bid conforms with all the material terms and conditions of the invitation and is the lowest in price. The sealed bids procurement method is preferred for procuring construction services.
(i) For sealed bidding to be feasible, the following conditions should be present:
(A) A complete, adequate, and realistic specification or purchase description is available; (B) Two or more responsible bidders have been identified as willing and able to compete effectively for the business; and
(C) The procurement lends itself to a firm-fixed-price contract, and the selection of the successful bidder can be made principally based on price.
(ii) If sealed bids are used, the following requirements apply:
(A) Bids must be solicited from an adequate number of qualified sources, providing them with sufficient response time prior to the date set for opening the bids. Unless specified by the Federal agency, the recipient or subrecipient may exercise judgment in determining what number is adequate. For local governments, the invitation for bids must be publicly advertised.
(B) The invitation for bids must define the items or services with specific information, including any required specifications, for the bidder to properly respond;
(C) All bids will be opened at the time and place prescribed in the invitation for bids. For local governments, the bids must be opened publicly.
(D) A firm-fixed-price contract is awarded in writing to the lowest responsive bid and responsible bidder. When specified in the invitation for bids, factors such as discounts, transportation cost, and life-cycle costs must be considered in determining which bid is the lowest. Payment discounts must only be used to determine the low bid when the recipient or subrecipient determines they are a valid factor based on prior experience.
(E) The recipient or subrecipient must document and provide a justification for all bids it rejects.
(2) Proposals. This is a procurement method used when conditions are not appropriate for using sealed bids. This procurement method may result in either a fixed-price or cost-reimbursement contract. They are awarded in accordance with the following requirements:
(i) Requests for proposals require public notice, and all evaluation factors and their relative importance must be identified. Proposals must be solicited from multiple qualified entities. To the maximum extent practicable, any proposals submitted in response to the public notice must be considered.
(ii) The recipient or subrecipient must have written procedures for conducting technical evaluations and making selections.
(iii) Contracts must be awarded to the responsible offeror whose proposal is most advantageous to the recipient or subrecipient considering price and other factors; and
(iv) The recipient or subrecipient may use competitive proposal procedures for qualifications-based procurement of architectural/engineering (A/E) professional services whereby the offeror's qualifications are evaluated, and the most qualified offeror is selected, subject to negotiation of fair and reasonable compensation. The method, where the price is not used as a selection factor, can only be used to procure architectural/engineering (A/E) professional services. The method may not be used to purchase other services provided by A/E firms that are a potential source to perform the proposed effort.
(c) Noncompetitive procurement. There are specific circumstances in which the recipient or subrecipient may use a noncompetitive procurement method. The noncompetitive procurement method may only be used if one of the following circumstances applies:
(1) The aggregate amount of the procurement transaction does not exceed the micro-purchase threshold (see paragraph (a)(1) of this section);
(2) The procurement transaction can only be fulfilled by a single source;
(3) The public exigency or emergency for the requirement will not permit a delay resulting from providing public notice of a competitive solicitation;
(4) The recipient or subrecipient requests in writing to use a noncompetitive procurement method, and the Federal agency or pass-through entity provides written approval; or
(5) After soliciting several sources, competition is determined inadequate.

§ 200.321 Contracting with small businesses, minority businesses, women's business enterprises, veteran-owned businesses, and labor surplus area firms.

(a) When possible, the recipient or subrecipient should ensure that small businesses, minority businesses, women's business enterprises, veteran-owned businesses, and labor surplus area firms (See U.S. Department of Labor's list) are considered as set forth below.
(b) Such consideration means:
(1) These business types are included on solicitation lists;
(2) These business types are solicited whenever they are deemed eligible as potential sources;
(3) Dividing procurement transactions into separate procurements to permit maximum participation by these business types;
(4) Establishing delivery schedules (for example, the percentage of an order to be delivered by a given date of each month) that encourage participation by these business types;
(5) Utilizing organizations such as the Small Business Administration and the Minority Business Development Agency of the Department of Commerce; and
(6) Requiring a contractor under a Federal award to apply this section to subcontracts.

§ 200.322 Domestic preferences for procurements.

(a) The recipient or subrecipient should, to the greatest extent practicable and consistent with law, provide a preference for the purchase, acquisition, or use of goods, products, or materials produced in the United States (including but not limited to iron, aluminum, steel, cement, and other manufactured products). The requirements of this section must be included in all subawards, contracts, and purchase orders under Federal awards.
(b) For purposes of this section:
(1) “Produced in the United States” means, for iron and steel products, that all manufacturing processes, from the initial melting stage through the application of coatings, occurred in the United States.
(2) “Manufactured products” means items and construction materials composed in whole or in part of non-ferrous metals such as aluminum; plastics and polymer-based products such as polyvinyl chloride pipe; aggregates such as concrete; glass, including optical fiber; and lumber.
(c) Federal agencies providing Federal financial assistance for infrastructure projects must implement the Buy America preferences set forth in 2 CFR part 184.

§ 200.323 Procurement of recovered materials.

(a) A recipient or subrecipient that is a State agency or agency of a political subdivision of a State and its contractors must comply with section 6002 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6962. The requirements of Section 6002 include procuring only items designated in the guidelines of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) at 40 CFR part 247 that contain the highest percentage of recovered materials practicable, consistent with maintaining a satisfactory level of competition, where the purchase price of the item exceeds $10,000 or the value of the quantity acquired during the preceding fiscal year exceeded $10,000; procuring solid waste management services in a manner that maximizes energy and resource recovery; and establishing an affirmative procurement program for procurement of recovered materials identified in the EPA guidelines.
(b) The recipient or subrecipient should, to the greatest extent practicable and consistent with law, purchase, acquire, or use products and services that can be reused, refurbished, or recycled; contain recycled content, are biobased, or are energy and water efficient; and are sustainable. This may include purchasing compostable items and other products and services that reduce the use of single-use plastic products. See Executive Order 14057, section 101, Policy.

§ 200.324 Contract cost and price.

(a) The recipient or subrecipient must perform a cost or price analysis for every procurement transaction, including contract modifications, in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold. The method and degree of analysis conducted depend on the facts surrounding the particular procurement transaction. For example, the recipient or subrecipient should consider potential workforce impacts in their analysis if the procurement transaction will displace public sector employees. However, as a starting point, the recipient or subrecipient must make independent estimates before receiving bids or proposals.
(b) Costs or prices based on estimated costs for contracts under the Federal award are allowable only to the extent that the costs incurred or cost estimates included in negotiated prices would be allowable for the recipient or subrecipient under subpart E of this part. The recipient or subrecipient may reference its own cost principles as long as they comply with subpart E of this part.
(c) The recipient or subrecipient must not use the “cost plus a percentage of cost” and “percentage of construction costs” methods of contracting.

§ 200.325 Federal agency or pass-through entity review.

(a) The Federal agency or pass-through entity may review the technical specifications of proposed procurements under the Federal award if the Federal agency or pass-through entity believes the review is needed to ensure that the item or service specified is the one being proposed for acquisition. The recipient or subrecipient must submit the technical specifications of proposed procurements when requested by the Federal agency or pass-through entity. This review should take place prior to the time the specifications are incorporated into a solicitation document. When the recipient or subrecipient desires to accomplish the review after a solicitation has been developed, the Federal agency or pass-through entity may still review the specifications. In those cases, the review should be limited to the technical aspects of the proposed purchase.
(b) When requested, the recipient or subrecipient must provide procurement documents (such as requests for proposals, invitations for bids, or independent cost estimates) to the Federal agency or pass-through entity for pre-procurement review. The Federal agency or pass-through entity may conduct a pre-procurement review when:
(1) The recipient's or subrecipient's procurement procedures or operation fails to comply with the procurement standards in this part;
(2) The procurement is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold and is to be awarded without competition, or only one bid is expected to be received in response to a solicitation;
(3) The procurement is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold and specifies a “brand name” product;
(4) The procurement is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold, and a sealed bid procurement is to be awarded to an entity other than the apparent low bidder; or
(5) A proposed contract modification changes the scope of a contract or increases the contract amount by more than the simplified acquisition threshold.
(c) The recipient or subrecipient is exempt from the pre-procurement review in paragraph (b) of this section if the Federal agency or pass-through entity determines that its procurement systems comply with the standards of this part.
(1) The recipient or subrecipient may request that the Federal agency or pass-through entity review its procurement system to determine whether it meets these standards for its system to be certified. Generally, these reviews must occur where there is continuous high-dollar funding and third-party contracts are awarded regularly.
(2) The recipient or subrecipient may self-certify its procurement system. However, self-certification does not limit the Federal agency's or pass-through entity's right to review the system. Under a self-certification procedure, the Federal agency or pass-through entity may rely on written assurances from the recipient or subrecipient that it is complying with the standards of this part. The recipient or subrecipient must cite specific policies, procedures, regulations, or standards as complying with these requirements and have its system available for review.

§ 200.326 Bonding requirements.

The Federal agency or pass-through entity may accept the recipient's or subrecipient's bonding policy and requirements for construction or facility improvement contracts or subcontracts exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold. Before doing so, the Federal agency or pass-through entity must determine that the Federal interest is adequately protected. If such a determination has not been made, the minimum requirements must be as follows:
(a) A bid guarantee from each bidder equivalent to five percent of the bid price. The bid guarantee must consist of a firm commitment such as a bid bond, certified check, or other negotiable instrument accompanying a bid as assurance that the bidder will, upon acceptance of the bid, execute any required contractual documents within the specified timeframe.
(b) A performance bond on the contractor's part for 100 percent of the contract price. A performance bond is a bond executed in connection with a contract to secure the fulfillment of all the contractor's requirements under a contract.
(c) A payment bond on the contractor's part for 100 percent of the contract price. A payment bond is a bond executed in connection with a contract to assure payment as required by the law of all persons supplying labor and material in the execution of the work provided for under a contract.

§ 200.327 Contract provisions.

The recipient's or subrecipient's contracts must contain the applicable provisions described in Appendix II of this part.

Performance and Financial Monitoring and Reporting

§ 200.328 Financial reporting.

(a) The Federal agency must require only OMB-approved government-wide data elements on recipient financial reports. At the time of publication, this consists of the Federal Financial Report (SF-425); however, this also applies to any future OMB-approved government-wide data elements available from the OMB-designated standards lead.
(b) The Federal agency or pass-through entity must collect financial reports no less than annually. The Federal agency or pass-through entity may not collect financial reports more frequently than quarterly unless a specific condition has been implemented in accordance with § 200.208. To the extent practicable, the Federal agency or pass-through entity should collect financial reports in coordination with performance reports.
(c) The recipient or subrecipient must submit financial reports as required by the Federal award. Reports submitted annually by the recipient or subrecipient must be due no later than 90 calendar days after the reporting period. Reports submitted quarterly or semiannually must be due no later than 30 calendar days after the reporting period.
(d) The final financial report submitted by the recipient must be due no later than 120 calendar days after the conclusion of the period of performance. A subrecipient must submit a final financial report to a pass-through entity no later than 90 calendar days after the conclusion of the period of performance. See also § 200.344. The Federal agency or pass-through entity may extend the due date for any financial report with justification from the recipient or subrecipient.

§ 200.329 Monitoring and reporting program performance.

(a) Monitoring by the recipient and subrecipient. The recipient and subrecipient are responsible for the oversight of the Federal award. The recipient and subrecipient must monitor their activities under Federal awards to ensure they are compliant with all requirements and meeting performance expectations. Monitoring by the recipient and subrecipient must cover each program, function, or activity. See also § 200.332.
(b) Reporting program performance. The Federal agency must use OMB-approved common information collections (for example, Research Performance Progress Reports) when requesting performance reporting information. The Federal agency or pass-through entity may not collect performance reports more frequently than quarterly unless a specific condition has been implemented in accordance with § 200.208. To the extent practicable, the Federal agency or pass-through entity should align the due dates of performance reports and financial reports. When reporting program performance, the recipient or subrecipient must relate financial data and project or program accomplishments to the performance goals and objectives of the Federal award. Also, the recipient or subrecipient must provide cost information to demonstrate cost-effective practices (for example, through unit cost data) when required by the terms and conditions of the Federal award. In some instances (for example, discretionary research awards), this may be limited to the requirement to submit technical performance reports. Reporting requirements must clearly indicate a standard against which the recipient's or subrecipient's performance can be measured. Reporting requirements should not solicit information from the recipient or subrecipient that is not necessary for the effective monitoring or evaluation of the Federal award. Federal agencies should consult monitoring framework documents such as the agency's Evaluation Plan to make that determination. As noted in OMB Circular A-11, Part 6, Section 280, measures of customer experience are of co-equal importance as traditional measures of financial and operational performance.
(c) Submitting performance reports. (1) The recipient or subrecipient must submit performance reports as required by the Federal award. Intervals must be no less frequent than annually nor more frequent than quarterly except if specific conditions are applied (See § 200.208). Reports submitted annually by the recipient or subrecipient must be due no later than 90 calendar days after the reporting period. Reports submitted quarterly or semiannually must be due no later than 30 calendar days after the reporting period. Alternatively, the Federal agency or pass-through entity may require annual reports before the anniversary dates of multiple-year Federal awards. The final performance report submitted by the recipient must be due no later than 120 calendar days after the period of performance. A subrecipient must submit a final performance report to a pass-through entity no later than 90 calendar days after the conclusion of the period of performance. See also § 200.344. The Federal agency or pass-through entity may extend the due date for any performance report with justification from the recipient or subrecipient.
(2) As applicable, performance reports should contain information on the following:
(i) A comparison of accomplishments to the objectives of the Federal award established for the reporting period (for example, comparing costs to units of accomplishment). Where performance trend data and analysis would be informative to the Federal agency program, the Federal agency should include this as a performance reporting requirement.
(ii) Explanations on why established goals or objectives were not met; and
(iii) Additional information, analysis, and explanation of cost overruns or higher-than-expected unit costs.
(d) Construction performance reports. Federal agencies or pass-through entities rely on on-site technical inspections and certified percentage of completion data to monitor progress under Federal awards for construction. Therefore, the Federal agency or pass-through entity may require additional performance reports when necessary to ensure the goals and objectives of Federal awards are met.
(e) Significant developments. When a significant development that could impact the Federal award occurs between performance reporting due dates, the recipient or subrecipient must notify the Federal agency or pass-through entity. Significant developments include events that enable meeting milestones and objectives sooner or at less cost than anticipated or that produce different beneficial results than originally planned. Significant developments also include problems, delays, or adverse conditions which will impact the recipient's or subrecipient's ability to meet milestones or the objectives of the Federal award. When significant developments occur that negatively impact the Federal Award, the recipient or subrecipient must include information on their plan for corrective action and any assistance needed to resolve the situation.
(f) Site visits. The Federal agency or pass-through entity may conduct in-person or virtual site visits as warranted.
(g) Performance report requirement waiver. The Federal agency may waive any performance report that is not necessary to ensure the goals and objectives of the Federal award are being achieved.

§ 200.330 Reporting on real property.

The Federal agency or pass-through entity must require the recipient or subrecipient to submit reports on the status of real property in which the Federal Government retains an interest. Such reports must be submitted at least annually. In instances where the Federal Government's interest in the real property extends for 15 years or more, the Federal agency or pass-through entity may require the recipient or subrecipient to report at various multi-year frequencies. Reports submitted at multi-year frequencies may not exceed a five-year reporting period. The Federal agency must only require OMB-approved government-wide data elements on recipient real property reports.

Subrecipient Monitoring and Management

§ 200.331 Subrecipient and contractor determinations.

An entity may concurrently receive Federal awards as a recipient, a subrecipient, and a contractor. The pass-through entity is responsible for making case-by-case determinations to determine whether the entity receiving Federal funds is a subrecipient or a contractor. The Federal agency may require the pass-through entity to comply with additional guidance to make these determinations, provided such guidance does not conflict with this section. The Federal agency does not have a direct legal relationship with subrecipients or contractors of any tier; however, the Federal agency is responsible for monitoring the pass-through entity's oversight of first-tier subrecipients. All of the characteristics listed below may not be present in all cases, and some characteristics from both categories may be present at the same time. No single factor or any combination of factors is necessarily determinative. The pass-through entity must use judgment in classifying each agreement as a subaward or a procurement contract. In making this determination, the substance of the relationship is more important than the form of the agreement.
(a) Subrecipients. A subaward is for the purpose of carrying out a portion of the Federal award and creates a Federal financial assistance relationship with a subrecipient. See the definition of Subaward in § 200.1. Characteristics that support the classification of the entity as a subrecipient include, but are not limited to, when the entity:
(1) Determines who is eligible to receive what Federal assistance;
(2) Has its performance measured in relation to whether the objectives of a Federal program were met;
(3) Has responsibility for programmatic decision-making;
(4) Is responsible for adherence to applicable Federal program requirements specified in the Federal award; and
(5) Implements a program for a public purpose specified in authorizing statute, as opposed to providing goods or services for the benefit of the pass-through entity.
(b) Contractors. A contract is for the purpose of obtaining goods and services for the recipient's or subrecipient's use and creates a procurement relationship with a contractor. See the definition of contract in § 200.1. Characteristics that support a procurement relationship between the recipient or subrecipient and a contractor include, but are not limited to, when the contractor:
(1) Provides the goods and services within normal business operations;
(2) Provides similar goods or services to many different purchasers;
(3) Normally operates in a competitive environment;
(4) Provides goods or services that are ancillary to the implementation of a Federal program; and
(5) Is not subject to compliance requirements of a Federal program as a result of the agreement. However, similar requirements may apply for other reasons.

§ 200.332 Requirements for pass-through entities.

A pass-through entity must:
(a) Verify that the subrecipient is not excluded or disqualified in accordance with § 180.300. Verification methods are provided in § 180.300, which include confirming in SAM.gov that a potential subrecipient is not suspended, debarred, or otherwise excluded from receiving Federal funds.
(b) Ensure that every subaward is clearly identified to the subrecipient as a subaward and includes the information provided below. A pass-through entity must provide the best available information when some of the information below is unavailable. A pass-through entity must provide the unavailable information when it is obtained. Required information includes:
(1) Federal award identification.
(i) Subrecipient's name (must match the name associated with its unique entity identifier);
(ii) Subrecipient's unique entity identifier;
(iii) Federal Award Identification Number (FAIN);
(iv) Federal Award Date;
(v) Subaward Period of Performance Start and End Date;
(vi) Subaward Budget Period Start and End Date;
(vii) Amount of Federal Funds Obligated in the subaward;
(viii) Total Amount of Federal Funds Obligated to the subrecipient by the pass-through entity, including the current financial obligation;
(ix) Total Amount of the Federal Award committed to the subrecipient by the pass-through entity;
(x) Federal award project description, as required by the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act (FFATA);
(xi) Name of the Federal agency, pass-through entity, and contact information for awarding official of the pass-through entity;
(xii) Assistance Listings title and number; the pass-through entity must identify the dollar amount made available under each Federal award and the Assistance Listings Number at the time of disbursement;
(xiii) Identification of whether the Federal award is for research and development; and
(xiv) Indirect cost rate for the Federal award (including if the de minimis rate is used in accordance with § 200.414).
(2) All requirements of the subaward, including requirements imposed by Federal statutes, regulations, and the terms and conditions of the Federal award;
(3) Any additional requirements that the pass-through entity imposes on the subrecipient for the pass-through entity to meet its responsibilities under the Federal award. This includes information and certifications (see § 200.415) required for submitting financial and performance reports that the pass-through entity must provide to the Federal agency;
(4) Indirect cost rate:
(i) An approved indirect cost rate negotiated between the subrecipient and the Federal Government. If no approved rate exists, a pass-through entity must determine the appropriate rate in collaboration with the subrecipient. The indirect cost rate may be either:
(A) An indirect cost rate negotiated between the pass-through entity and the subrecipient. These rates may be based on a prior negotiated rate between a different pass-through entity and the subrecipient, in which case the pass-through entity is not required to collect information justifying the rate but may elect to do so; or
(B) The de minimis indirect cost rate.
(ii) The pass-through entity must not require the use of the de minimis indirect cost rate if the subrecipient has an approved indirect cost rate negotiated with the Federal Government. Subrecipients may elect to use the cost allocation method to account for indirect costs in accordance with § 200.405(d).
(5) A requirement that the subrecipient permit the pass-through entity and auditors to access the subrecipient's records and financial statements for the pass-through entity to fulfill its monitoring requirements; and
(6) Appropriate terms and conditions concerning the closeout of the subaward.
(c) Evaluate each subrecipient's fraud risk and risk of noncompliance with a subaward to determine the appropriate subrecipient monitoring described in paragraph (f) of this section. When evaluating a subrecipient's risk, a pass-through entity should consider the following:
(1) The subrecipient's prior experience with the same or similar subawards;
(2) The results of previous audits. This includes considering whether or not the subrecipient receives a Single Audit in accordance with subpart F and the extent to which the same or similar subawards have been audited as a major program;
(3) Whether the subrecipient has new personnel or new or substantially changed systems; and
(4) The extent and results of any Federal agency monitoring (for example, if the subrecipient also receives Federal awards directly from the Federal agency).
(d) If appropriate, consider implementing specific conditions in a subaward as described in § 200.208 and notify the Federal agency of the specific conditions.
(e) Monitor the activities of a subrecipient as necessary to ensure that the subrecipient complies with Federal statutes, regulations, and the terms and conditions of the subaward. The pass-through entity is responsible for monitoring the overall performance of a subrecipient to ensure that the goals and objectives of the subaward are achieved. In monitoring a subrecipient, a pass-through entity must:
(1) Review financial and performance reports.
(2) Ensure that the subrecipient takes corrective action on all significant developments that negatively affect the subaward. Significant developments include Single Audit findings related to the subaward, other audit findings, site visits, and written notifications from a subrecipient of adverse conditions which will impact their ability to meet the milestones or the objectives of a subaward. When significant developments negatively impact the subaward, a subrecipient must provide the pass-through entity with information on their plan for corrective action and any assistance needed to resolve the situation.
(3) Issue a management decision for audit findings pertaining only to the Federal award provided to the subrecipient from the pass-through entity as required by § 200.521.
(4) Resolve audit findings specifically related to the subaward. However, the pass-through entity is not responsible for resolving cross-cutting audit findings that apply to the subaward and other Federal awards or subawards. If a subrecipient has a current Single Audit report and has not been excluded from receiving Federal funding (meaning, has not been debarred or suspended), the pass-through entity may rely on the subrecipient's cognizant agency for audit or oversight agency for audit to perform audit follow-up and make management decisions related to cross-cutting audit findings in accordance with section § 200.513(a)(4)(viii). Such reliance does not eliminate the responsibility of the pass-through entity to issue subawards that conform to agency and award-specific requirements, to manage risk through ongoing subaward monitoring, and to monitor the status of the findings that are specifically related to the subaward.
(f) Depending upon the pass-through entity's assessment of the risk posed by the subrecipient (as described in paragraph (c) of this section), the following monitoring tools may be useful for the pass-through entity to ensure proper accountability and compliance with program requirements and achievement of performance goals:
(1) Providing subrecipients with training and technical assistance on program-related matters;
(2) Performing site visits to review the subrecipient's program operations; and
(3) Arranging for agreed-upon-procedures engagements as described in § 200.425.
(g) Verify that a subrecipient is audited as required by subpart F of this part.
(h) Consider whether the results of a subrecipient's audit, site visits, or other monitoring necessitate adjustments to the pass-through entity's records.
(i) Consider taking enforcement action against noncompliant subrecipients as described in § 200.339 and in program regulations.

§ 200.333 Fixed amount subawards.

With prior written approval from the Federal agency, the recipient may provide subawards based on fixed amounts up to $500,000. Fixed amount subawards must meet the requirements of § 200.201.

Record Retention and Access

§ 200.334 Record retention requirements.

The recipient and subrecipient must retain all Federal award records for three years from the date of submission of their final financial report. For awards that are renewed quarterly or annually, the recipient and subrecipient must retain records for three years from the date of submission of their quarterly or annual financial report, respectively. Records to be retained include but are not limited to, financial records, supporting documentation, and statistical records. Federal agencies or pass-through entities may not impose any other record retention requirements except for the following:
(a) The records must be retained until all litigation, claims, or audit findings involving the records have been resolved and final action taken if any litigation, claim, or audit is started before the expiration of the three-year period.
(b) When the recipient or subrecipient is notified in writing by the Federal agency or pass-through entity, cognizant agency for audit, oversight agency for audit, or cognizant agency for indirect costs to extend the retention period.
(c) The records for property and equipment acquired with the support of Federal funds must be retained for three years after final disposition.
(d) The three-year retention requirement does not apply to the recipient or subrecipient when records are transferred to or maintained by the Federal agency.
(e) The records for program income earned after the period of performance must be retained for three years from the end of the recipient's or subrecipient's fiscal year in which the program income is earned. This only applies if the Federal agency or pass-through entity requires the recipient or subrecipient to report on program income earned after the period of performance in the terms and conditions of the Federal award.
(f) The records for indirect cost rate computations or proposals, cost allocation plans, and any similar accounting computations of the rate at which a particular group of costs is chargeable (such as computer usage chargeback rates or composite fringe benefit rates) must be retained according to the applicable option below:
(1) If submitted for negotiation. When a proposal, plan, or other computation must be submitted to the Federal Government to form the basis for negotiation of an indirect cost rate (or other standard rates), then the three-year retention period for its supporting records starts from the date of submission.
(2) If not submitted for negotiation. When a proposal, plan, or other computation is not required to be submitted to the Federal Government to form the basis for negotiation of an indirect cost rate (or other standard rates), then the three-year retention period for its supporting records starts from the end of the fiscal year (or other accounting period) covered by the proposal, plan, or other computation.

§ 200.335 Requests for transfer of records.

The Federal agency must request the transfer of records to its custody from the recipient or subrecipient when it determines that the records possess long-term retention value. However, the Federal agency may arrange for the recipient or subrecipient to retain the records that have long-term retention value so long as they are continuously available to the Federal Government.

§ 200.336 Methods for collection, transmission, and storage of information.

When practicable, the Federal agency or pass-through entity and the recipient or subrecipient must collect, transmit, and store Federal award information in open and machine-readable formats. A machine-readable format is a format in a standard computer language (not English text) that can be read automatically by a computer system. Upon request, the Federal agency or pass-through entity must always provide or accept paper versions of Federal award information to and from the recipient or subrecipient. The Federal agency or pass-through entity must not require additional copies of Federal award information submitted in paper versions. The recipient or subrecipient does not need to create and retain paper copies when original records are electronic and cannot be altered. In addition, the recipient or subrecipient may substitute electronic versions of original paper records through duplication or other forms of electronic conversion, provided that the procedures are subject to periodic quality control reviews. Quality control reviews must ensure that electronic conversion procedures provide safeguards against the alteration of records and assurance that records remain in a format that is readable by a computer system.

§ 200.337 Access to records.

(a) Records of recipients and subrecipients. The Federal agency or pass-through entity, Inspectors General, the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their authorized representatives must have the right of access to any records of the recipient or subrecipient pertinent to the Federal award to perform audits, execute site visits, or for any other official use. This right also includes timely and reasonable access to the recipient's or subrecipient's personnel for the purpose of interview and discussion related to such documents or the Federal award in general.
(b) Extraordinary and rare circumstances. The recipient or subrecipient and Federal agency or pass-through entity must take measures to protect the name of victims of a crime when access to the victim's name is necessary. Only under extraordinary and rare circumstances would such access include a review of the true name of victims of a crime. Routine monitoring cannot be considered extraordinary and rare circumstances that would necessitate access to this information. Any such access, other than under a court order or subpoena pursuant to a bona fide confidential investigation, must be approved by the head or delegate of the Federal agency.
(c) Expiration of right of access. The Federal agency's or pass-through entity's rights of access are not limited to the required retention period of this part but last as long as the records are retained. Federal agencies or pass-through entities must not impose any other access requirements upon recipients and subrecipients.

§ 200.338 Restrictions on public access to records.

Federal agencies may not place restrictions on the recipient or subrecipient that limit public access to the records of the recipient or subrecipient pertinent to a Federal award, except for protected personally identifiable information (PII) or other sensitive information when the Federal agency can demonstrate that such records will be kept confidential and would have been exempted from disclosure pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) or controlled unclassified information pursuant to Executive Order 13556 if the records had belonged to the Federal agency. The Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) (FOIA) does not apply to records that remain under the recipient's or subrecipient's control except as required by § 200.315. Unless required by Federal, State, local, or tribal law, recipients and subrecipients are not required to permit public access to their records. The recipient's or subrecipient's records provided to a Federal agency generally will be subject to FOIA and applicable exemptions.

Remedies for Noncompliance

§ 200.339 Remedies for noncompliance.

The Federal agency or pass-through entity may implement specific conditions if the recipient or subrecipient fails to comply with the U.S. Constitution, Federal statutes, regulations, or terms and conditions of the Federal award. See § 200.208 for additional information on specific conditions. When the Federal agency or pass-through entity determines that noncompliance cannot be remedied by imposing specific conditions, the Federal agency or pass-through entity may take one or more of the following actions:
(a) Temporarily withhold payments until the recipient or subrecipient takes corrective action.
(b) Disallow costs for all or part of the activity associated with the noncompliance of the recipient or subrecipient.
(c) Suspend or terminate the Federal award in part or in its entirety.
(d) Initiate suspension or debarment proceedings as authorized in 2 CFR part 180 and the Federal agency's regulations, or for pass-through entities, recommend suspension or debarment proceedings be initiated by the Federal agency.
(e) Withhold further Federal funds (new awards or continuation funding) for the project or program.
(f) Pursue other legally available remedies.

§ 200.340 Termination.

(a) The Federal award may be terminated in part or its entirety as follows:
(1) By the Federal agency or pass-through entity if the recipient or subrecipient fails to comply with the terms and conditions of the Federal award;
(2) By the Federal agency or pass-through entity with the consent of the recipient or subrecipient, in which case the two parties must agree upon the termination conditions. These conditions include the effective date and, in the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated;
(3) By the recipient or subrecipient upon sending the Federal agency or pass-through entity a written notification of the reasons for such termination, the effective date, and, in the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated. However, if the Federal agency or pass-through entity determines that the remaining portion of the Federal award will not accomplish the purposes for which the Federal award was made, the Federal agency or pass-through entity may terminate the Federal award in its entirety; or
(4) By the Federal agency or pass-through entity pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Federal award, including, to the extent authorized by law, if an award no longer effectuates the program goals or agency priorities.
(b) The Federal agency or pass-through entity must clearly and unambiguously specify all termination provisions in the terms and conditions of the Federal award.
(c) When the Federal agency terminates the Federal award prior to the end of the period of performance due to the recipient's material failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the Federal award, the Federal agency must report the termination in SAM.gov. A Federal agency must use the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS) to enter information in SAM.gov.
(1) The information required under paragraph (c) of this section is not to be reported in SAM.gov until the recipient has either:
(i) Exhausted its opportunities to object or challenge the decision (see § 200.342); or
(ii) Has not, within 30 calendar days after being notified of the termination, informed the Federal agency that it intends to appeal the decision to terminate.
(2) If a Federal agency, after entering information about a termination in SAM.gov, subsequently:
(i) Learns that any of that information is erroneous, the Federal agency must correct the information in the system within three business days;
(ii) Obtains an update to that information that could be helpful to other Federal agencies, the Federal agency is strongly encouraged to amend the information in the system to incorporate the update in a timely way.
(3) The Federal agency must not post any information that will be made publicly available in the non-public segment of SAM.gov that is covered by a disclosure exemption under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). When the recipient asserts within seven calendar days to the Federal agency which posted the information that a disclosure exemption under FOIA covers some of the information made publicly available, the Federal agency that posted the information must remove the posting within seven calendar days of receiving the assertion. Before reposting the releasable information, the Federal agency must resolve the issue in accordance with the agency's FOIA procedures.
(d) When the Federal award is terminated in part or its entirety, the Federal agency or pass-through entity and recipient or subrecipient remain responsible for compliance with the requirements in §§ 200.344 and 200.345.

§ 200.341 Notification of termination requirement.

(a) The Federal agency or pass-through entity must provide written notice of termination to the recipient or subrecipient. The written notice of termination should include the reasons for termination, the effective date, and the portion of the Federal award to be terminated, if applicable.
(b) If the Federal award is terminated for the recipient's material failure to comply with a Federal award, the notification must state the following:
(1) The termination decision will be reported in SAM.gov;
(2) The information will be available in SAM.gov for five years from the date of the termination and then archived;
(3) Federal agencies that consider making a Federal award to the recipient during the five year period must consider this information in judging whether the recipient is qualified to receive the Federal award when the Federal share of the Federal award is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold over the period of performance;
(4) The recipient may comment on any information in SAM.gov about the recipient for future consideration by Federal agencies. The recipient may submit comments in SAM.gov.
(5) Federal agencies should consider the recipient's comments when determining whether the recipient is qualified for a Federal award.
(c) Upon termination of the Federal award, the Federal agency must provide the information required by the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act (FFATA) to USAspending.gov. In addition, the Federal agency must update or notify any other relevant government-wide systems or entities of any indications of poor performance as required by 41 U.S.C. 2313 and 31 U.S.C. 3321.

§ 200.342 Opportunities to object, hearings, and appeals.

The Federal agency must maintain written procedures for processing objections, hearings, and appeals. Upon initiating a remedy for noncompliance (for example, disallowed costs, a corrective action plan, or termination), the Federal agency must provide the recipient with an opportunity to object and provide information challenging the action. The Federal agency or pass-through entity must comply with any requirements for hearings, appeals, or other administrative proceedings to which the recipient or subrecipient is entitled under any statute or regulation applicable to the action involved.

§ 200.343 Effects of suspension and termination.

Costs to the recipient or subrecipient resulting from financial obligations incurred by the recipient or subrecipient during a suspension or after the termination of a Federal award are not allowable unless the Federal agency or pass-through entity expressly authorizes them in the notice of suspension or termination or subsequently. However, costs during suspension or after termination are allowable if:
(a) The costs result from financial obligations which were properly incurred by the recipient or subrecipient before the effective date of suspension or termination, and not in anticipation of it; and
(b) The costs would be allowable if the Federal award was not suspended or expired normally at the end of the period of performance in which the termination takes effect.

Closeout

§ 200.344 Closeout.

(a) The Federal agency or pass-through entity must close out the Federal award when it determines that all administrative actions and required work of the Federal award have been completed. When the recipient or subrecipient fails to complete the necessary administrative actions or the required work for an award, the Federal agency or pass-through entity must proceed with closeout based on the information available. This section specifies the administrative actions required at the end of the period of performance.
(b) A recipient must submit all reports (financial, performance, and other reports required by the Federal award) no later than 120 calendar days after the conclusion of the period of performance. A subrecipient must submit all reports (financial, performance, and other reports required by a subaward) to the pass-through entity no later than 90 calendar days after the conclusion of the period of performance of the subaward (or an earlier date as agreed upon by the pass-through entity and subrecipient). When justified, the Federal agency or pass-through entity may approve extensions for the recipient or subrecipient. When the recipient does not have a final indirect cost rate covering the period of performance, a final financial report must still be submitted to fulfill the requirements of this section. The recipient must submit a revised final financial report when all applicable indirect cost rates have been finalized.
(c) The recipient must liquidate all financial obligations incurred under the Federal award no later than 120 calendar days after the conclusion of the period of performance. A subrecipient must liquidate all financial obligations incurred under a subaward no later than 90 calendar days after the conclusion of the period of performance of the subaward (or an earlier date as agreed upon by the pass-through entity and subrecipient). When justified, the Federal agency or pass-through entity may approve extensions for the recipient or subrecipient.
(d) The Federal agency or pass-through entity must not delay payments to the recipient or subrecipient for costs meeting the requirements of subpart E of this part.
(e) The recipient or subrecipient must promptly refund any unobligated funds that the Federal agency or pass-through entity paid and that are not authorized to be retained. See OMB Circular A-129 and § 200.346.
(f) The Federal agency or pass-through entity must make all necessary adjustments to the Federal share of costs after closeout reports are received (for example, to reflect the disallowance of any costs or the deobligation of an unliquidated balance).
(g) The recipient or subrecipient must account for any property acquired with Federal funds or received from the Federal Government in accordance with §§ 200.310 through 200.316 and 200.330.
(h) The Federal agency must make every effort to complete all closeout actions no later than one year after the end of the period of performance. If the indirect cost rate has not been finalized and would delay closeout, the Federal agency is authorized to mutually agree with the recipient to close an award using the current or most recently negotiated rate. However, the recipient is not required to agree to a final rate for a Federal award for the purpose of prompt closeout.
(i) If the recipient does not comply with the requirements of this section, including submitting all final reports, the Federal agency must report the recipient's material failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the Federal award in SAM.gov. A Federal agency must use the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS) to enter or amend information in SAM.gov. Federal agencies may also pursue other enforcement actions as appropriate. See § 200.339.

Post-Closeout Adjustments and Continuing Responsibilities

§ 200.345 Post-closeout adjustments and continuing responsibilities.

(a) The closeout of the Federal award does not affect any of the following:
(1) The right of the Federal agency or pass-through entity to disallow costs and recover funds on the basis of a later audit or review. However, the Federal agency or pass-through entity must make determinations to disallow costs and notify the recipient or subrecipient within the record retention period.
(2) The recipient's or subrecipient's requirement to return funds or right to receive any remaining and available funds as a result of refunds, corrections, final indirect cost rate adjustments (unless the Federal award in closed in accordance with § 200.344(h)), or other transactions.
(3) The ability of the Federal agency or pass-through entity to make financial adjustments to a previously closed Federal award, such as resolving indirect cost payments and making final payments.
(4) Audit requirements in subpart F of this part.
(5) Property management and disposition requirements in §§ 200.310 through 200.316.
(6) Records retention as required in §§ 200.334 through 200.337.
(b) After the closeout of the Federal award, a relationship created under the Federal award may be modified or ended in whole or in part. This may only be done with the consent of the awarding Federal agency or pass-through entity and the recipient or subrecipient, provided the responsibilities of the recipient or subrecipient referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, including those for property management as applicable, are considered and provisions are made for continuing responsibilities of the recipient or subrecipient, as appropriate.

Collection of Amounts Due

§ 200.346 Collection of amounts due.

Any Federal funds paid to the recipient or subrecipient in excess of the amount that the recipient or subrecipient is determined to be entitled to under the Federal award constitute a debt to the Federal Government. The Federal agency must collect all debts arising out of its Federal awards in accordance with the Standards for the Administrative Collection of Claims (31 CFR part 901).
