NIH Grants Policy Statement (FY 2026 revision) — Chapter 18: Grants to For-Profit Organizations
Source: https://grants.nih.gov/policy-and-compliance/nihgps

18 GRANTS TO FOR-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS
18.1 GENERAL
Some of the terms and conditions for grants to for-profit organizations vary from the standard terms and
conditions included in IIA. In addition, the terms and conditions of the SBIR and STTR programs vary
from those otherwise applicable to for-profit organizations. This chapter addresses separately the policies
applicable to for-profit organizations generally, and those that apply to SBIR and STTR awards specifically. It also highlights several policies in IIA that apply equally to for-profit and non-profit recipients. If an exception is not stated below or in the NoA, the terms and conditions specified in IIA apply,
including requirements for the protection of human subjects and animal welfare.
18.2 ELIGIBILITY
For-profit organizations are eligible to apply under all NIH programs and support mechanisms unless specifically excluded by statute.
18.3 ALLOWABLE AND UNALLOWABLE COSTS
18.3.1 Cost Principles
There are no cost principles specifically applicable to grants to for-profit organizations. Therefore, the
cost principles for commercial organizations set forth in the FAR (48 CFR Part 31.2) generally are used
to determine allowable costs under NIH grants to for-profit organizations. As provided in those costs
principles, allowable travel costs may not exceed those established by the FTR. The cost principles in 2
CFR Part 200, Appendix IX, Hospital Cost Principles, are used to determine allowable costs under NIH
grants to proprietary hospitals.
18.3.2 Indirect Costs
Indirect costs, including de minimis costs when appropriate, are allowable under awards to for-profit
organizations. See Reimbursement of Indirect Costs..
18.3.3 Profit or Fee
Except for grants awarded under the SBIR/STTR programs, under an NIH grant, no profit or fee will be
provided to a for-profit organization, whether as a recipient or as a consortium participant. A profit or
fee under a grant is not a cost but is an amount in excess of actual allowable direct and indirect costs. In
accordance with normal commercial practice, a profit / fee may be paid to a contractor under an NIH
grant providing routine goods or services to the recipient.
18.4 ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS
For-profit organizations generally are subject to the same administrative requirements as non-profit
organizations, including those relating to personal property title and management. Exceptions to or elaboration of those requirements for for-profit organizations are indicated below.
(GPS page IIB-128)

18.4.1 Equipment Accountability
For-profit recipients of NIH grants are nonexempt and subject to the requirements in 2 CFR Part
200.313, as well as the conditions set forth in Administrative Requirements—Management Systems and
Procedures—Property Management System Standards and Administrative Requirements—Management
Systems and Procedures—Procurement Systems Standards and Requirements in IIA. Under the conditions specified in 2 CFR Part 200.313,  for-profit recipients are permitted to retain title to equipment
purchased under a research grant though NIH reserves the right to order the transfer of equipment, including title, to NIH or an eligible third party named by the NIH awarding office when such third party is otherwise eligible under existing statutes. In addition, for-profit recipients must not use equipment acquired
with NIH funds to provide services to non-Federal organizations for a fee to compete unfairly with
private companies that provide equivalent services, unless the terms and conditions of the award provide
otherwise, and any user charges shall be treated as program income and must be reported on the FFR.
Conditions for the sale of equipment are specified at Administrative Requirements—Management Systems and Procedures—Sale of Real Property, Equipment, and Supplies in IIA.
18.4.2 Intellectual Property
Intellectual property requirements set forth in 37 CFR 401 apply to for-profit organizations, whether
small businesses or large businesses. However, invention reporting requirements for for-profit organizations differ somewhat from those for non-profit organizations. When the recipient is a for-profit organization, assignment of invention rights to a third party does not require NIH approval, but ongoing
reporting remains a requirement for each invention. (See Administrative Requirements—Availability of
Research Results: Publications, Intellectual Property Rights, and Sharing Research Resources in IIA.)
Additional information about the requirements of 37 CFR 401 may be obtained from the Division of
Extramural Inventions and Technology Resources, OPERA, NIH (see Part III for address and telephone
number).
To the extent authorized by law, the Federal government will not make public any information disclosing
a Federal government-supported invention.
18.4.3 Program Income
Consistent with NIH Standard Terms of Award, for-profit recipients, including those under the
SBIR/STTR programs, are subject to the additive alternative for the use of program income described in
Administrative Requirements—Management Systems and Procedures—Program Income in IIA.
18.4.4 Operating Authorities
Awards to for-profit organizations are subject to NIH Standard Terms of Award; however, some mechanisms do not allow automatic carryover of unobligated balances of funds. Under those mechanisms, the
NIH awarding IC will specify the disposition of the reported unobligated balance in the NoA. (See
Administrative Requirements—Changes in Project and Budget in IIA).
18.4.5 Audit
Specific to NIH, for-profit recipients are required to have a non-Federal audit conducted consistent with
the requirements outlined in 2 CFR 300.218(d) if, during its fiscal year, it expended a total of $750,000
or more under one or more Federal award (as a direct recipient or  consortium participant).
(GPS page IIB-129)

For-profit organizations that receive awards (including for-profit hospitals) have two options regarding
audits:
 i. A financial related audit of a particular award in accordance with GAGAS, in those cases where
the for-profit organization receives awards under only one HHS program (for NIH, receives all
awards from a single Institute or Center); or, if awards are received under multiple HHS programs, a financial related audit of all awards in accordance with GAGAS; or
 ii. An audit that meets the requirements contained in 2 CFR 200, subpart F.
Audits must be completed and submitted to the Department of Health and Human Services, Audit Resolution Division within 30 days after receipt of the auditor’s report(s), or 9 months after the end of the
audit period, i.e., the end of the organization’s fiscal year, whichever is earlier. The address is found in
Part III.
Specific to NIH, for-profit organizations expending less than $750,000 a year are not required to have an
annual audit for that year but must make their grant-related records available to NIH or other designated
officials for review or audit.
18.4.6 Labor Distribution Requirements for For-Profit Organizations
Salary and wage amounts charged to grant-supported projects for personal services must be based on an
adequate labor distribution system that distributes payroll costs in accordance with generally accepted
practices of like organizations. Standards for labor distribution systems are contained in the applicable
cost principles (other than those for for-profit organizations).
NIH requires for-profit organizations to conform with industry standards to support salary and wage
charges to NIH grants. Therefore, unless an alternate system is approved by the GMO, the recipient must
maintain a time and-effort reporting system for both professional and other-than-professional staff reflecting daily after-the-fact reporting of hours expended on individual projects or indirect activities. The system must record both hours worked and hours absent. This information must be certified by an AOR no
less frequently than every pay period.
18.5 SMALL BUSINESS INNOVATION RESEARCH AND
SMALL BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER PROGRAMS
NIH is required by statute to reserve a portion of its annual extramural budget for projects under the
SBIR and STTR programs. These programs primarily are intended to encourage private-sector commercialization of technology and to increase small business participation in federally funded R&D.
The SBIR and STTR programs were reauthorized and modified by Congress under P.L. 114-328, Section
1834, and P.L. 115-232. These authorities modified several aspects of the programs, including small business eligibility requirements. Updates on reauthorization implementation will be posted on NIH's
SBIR web page. NIH will issue Guide Notice/s to advise the community about the impact on NIH’s
SBIR and STTR programs.
The SBIR and STTR programs are phased programs:
Phase I. The objective of this phase is to establish the technical merit and feasibility of proposed
research or R&D efforts and to determine the quality of performance of the applicant (small business concern or SBC) before providing further Federal support in Phase II.
Phase II. The objective of this phase is to continue the research or R&D efforts initiated in Phase I.
Funding will be based on the results of Phase I and the scientific and technical merit and commercial
(GPS page IIB-130)

potential of the Phase II application.  Unless submitted as a Fast-Track application (see here), Phase II
STTR applications may be submitted only after the Phase I award is made.
For small businesses that have already demonstrated scientific and technical merit and feasibility but
have not received a Phase I SBIR or STTR for that project, NIH can issue a SBIR Direct to Phase II
award. The NIH SBIR Direct to Phase II will accept SBIR Phase II applications regardless of the funding source for the proof of principle work on which the proposed Phase II research is based.
Small business concerns (SBCs) eligible to submit Phase II applications for projects that were supported
with a Phase I SBIR or STTR award from NIH or any other agency are expected to submit Phase II
application through SBIR/STTR solicitations as "Renewal" applications based on the awarded Phase I
SBIR or STTR project. Only one Phase II award may be made for a specific project supported by a
Phase I award. NIH policies regarding overlapping applications (Sec. 2.3.7.4) still apply. A Phase II
recipient may receive one additional, sequential Phase II award (called NIH Phase IIB) to continue the
work of an initial Phase II award.
For small businesses that have received a Phase I SBIR or STTR, NIH expects non Fast-Track Phase II
applications to be submitted within the first six receipt dates following expiration of the Phase I budget
period, i.e., normally 2 years beyond the completion date of the Phase I award.
Some NIH ICs offer Phase II SBIR / STTR recipients the opportunity to apply for Phase IIB Competing
Renewal awards. These are available for those projects that require extraordinary time and effort, including those requiring regulatory approval or developing complex instrumentation, clinical research tools,
and behavioral interventions. NIH ICs accept phase IIB applications through the Omnibus SBIR/STTR
Grant Solicitation or other specific Notices of Funding Opportunity. Only those small business concerns
who have been awarded a Phase II are eligible to apply for a Phase IIB Competing Renewal award. Prospective applicants are strongly encouraged to review the NIH Highlighted Topics prior to submission..
Additional requirements and instructions  are available in  the specific  Notices of Funding Opportunity.
Some NIH ICs offer Phase II SBIR/STTR recipients the opportunity to apply for the Commercialization
Readiness Pilot (CRP) Program. The goal of the CRP is to facilitate the transition of previously funded
SBIR/STTR Phase I/IIB projects to the commercialization stage by providing additional support for later
stage research and development (R&D) and product development not typically supported through Phase
II or Phase IIB grants or contracts.
There are two major differences between the SBIR and STTR programs:
 l Primary Employment:
Under the SBIR Program, the Project Director/Principal Investigator (PD/PI) must have their
primary employment with the small business concern (i.e. more than one half of the PD/PI’s
time is spent in the employ of the small business concern) at the time of award and for the duration of the project period. However, deviations from this requirement for Phase I SBIR projects
are allowable under exceptional circumstances (such as unexpected loss of a PD/PI or to mitigate
negative effects on employment benefits) and must be approved in writing by the awarding IC.
To receive a deviation a small business must show:
 l Significant PI employment at the company;
 l Significant commitment of the PI to the project;
 l Commitment to transition the PI to 51% or more employment in the Phase II.
Deviations from this requirement in Phase II are extremely rare (e.g., the unexpected passing of a
PD / PI) and must be approved in writing by the awarding IC.
(GPS page IIB-131)

Under the STTR Program the PD/PI may have their primary employment with either the small business concern or the collaborating research institution. On an STTR project, the PD/PI must devote at least 10 percent of
their time to the STTR project. The PD/PI must also have a formal appointment with, or commitment to, the
SBC, which must be in the form of an official relationship between the parties, but need not include a salary or
other form of remuneration. An STTR applicant organization must officially affiliate a PD/PI with the SBC in the
eRA Commons if the PD/PI is not an employee of the SBC.
For purposes of the SBIR and STTR Programs, personnel obtained through a Professional Employer
Organization or other similar personnel leasing company may be considered employees of the recipient.
 l Partnering Research Institution: The STTR program requires for both phases I and II that the
SBC formally partner with a single, non-profit research institution. At least 40 percent of the
STTR research project is to be conducted by the SBC and at least 30 percent of the work is to be
conducted by the single, "partnering" research institution through a formal, cooperative arrangement. Such organizations include universities, non-profit hospitals, and other non-profit research
organizations as well as Federally Funded Research and Development Centers. STTR grants are
awarded to the SBC, which will receive all of the funding for the project and disburse the appropriate funding to the research institution. The SBIR program allows subcontracting, it does not
require it so the SBC may conduct the entire SBIR project without outside collaboration.
SBIR/STTR program policy allows the following:
 l Phase I STTR Recipients may apply for NIH SBIR or STTR Phase II.
 l Phase I SBIR Recipients may apply for NIH SBIR or STTR Phase II.
 l Phase II STTR Recipients may apply for NIH SBIR Phase IIB or STTR Phase IIB or CRP.
 l Phase II SBIR Recipients may apply for NIH SBIR Phase IIB or STTR Phase IIB or CRP.
 l Phase IIB STTR Recipients may apply for the CRP Program.
 l Phase IIB SBIR Recipients may apply for the CRP Program.
Applicants may ‘switch’ programs to any active and open NIH SBIR or STTR solicitation, including the
Parent solicitations and any targeted funding opportunity.
Note: There are distinct policies for each program—SBIR and STTR—and each phase within these programs.  Applicants that ‘switch’ programs must comply with the policies for the program and NOFO to
which they submit the application.  See 18.5.5.4 SBIR Life Cycle Certification and Sec. 18.5.5.5 STTR
Life Cycle Certification for further information.
18.5.1 NIH Fast-Track Application Process
The NIH Fast-Track application process expedites award decisions and funding of SBIR and STTR
Phase II applications for scientifically meritorious projects that have a high potential for commercialization. The Fast-Track process allows Phase I and Phase II grant applications to be submitted
and reviewed together. Fast-Track applications receive a single rating. Before submitting applications for
Fast-Track review, applicants are strongly encouraged to consult with cognizant NIH program staff to
assure Fast-Track is appropriate. For additional information on the submission of Fast-Track applications, see the SF424 (R&R) SBIR/STTR Application Guide.
(GPS page IIB-132)

18.5.2 Eligibility
Only United States small business concerns (SBCs) are eligible to submit SBIR and STTR applications.
A small business concern is one that meets all the following criteria. If it appears that an applicant organization does not meet the eligibility requirements, NIH will request a size determination by the SBA. If
eligibility is unclear, NIH will not make an SBIR or STTR award until the SBA provides a determination.
1.  SBIR Eligibility Requirements
 a. Organized for profit, with a place of business located in the United States, which operates primarily within the United States or which makes a significant contribution to the United States economy through payment of taxes or use of American products, materials;
 b. In the legal form of an individual proprietorship, partnership, limited liability company, corporation, joint venture, association, trust or cooperative, except that where the form is a joint venture, there must be less than 50 percent participation by foreign business entities in the joint
venture;
 c.
 i. Be a concern which is more than 50% directly owned and controlled by one or more individuals (who are citizens or permanent resident aliens of the United States), other business concerns (each of which is more than 50% directly owned and controlled by
individuals who are citizens or permanent resident aliens of the United States), an Indian
tribe, ANC (Alaska Native Corporation) or NHO (Native Hawaiian Organization) (or a
wholly owned business entity of such tribe, ANC or NHO), or any combination of these;
OR
 ii. Be a concern which is more than 50% owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, private equity firms, or any combination of these.  No single venture
capital operating company, hedge fund, or private equity firm may own more than 50%
of the concern; OR
 iii. Be a joint venture in which each entity to the joint venture must meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph c(i) or  c(ii) of this section. A joint venture that includes one or
more concerns that meet the requirements of paragraph (ii) of this section must comply
with § 121.705(b) concerning registration and application requirements.
 d. Has, including its affiliates, not more than 500 employees and meets the other regulatory requirements found in 13 CFR Part 121. Business concerns, other than investment companies licensed,
or state development companies qualifying under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, 15
U.S.C. 661, et seq., are affiliates of one another when either directly or indirectly, (a) one concern controls or has the power to control the other; or (b) a third-party/parties controls or has the
power to control both.
2.  STTR Eligibility Requirements
 a. Organized for profit, with a place of business located in the United States, which operates primarily within the United States or which makes a significant contribution to the United States economy through payment of taxes or use of American products, materials;
 b. In the legal form of an individual proprietorship, partnership, limited liability company, corporation, joint venture, association, trust or cooperative, except that where the form is a joint venture, there must be less than 50 percent participation by foreign business entities in the joint
venture;
(GPS page IIB-133)

c.
 i. Be a concern which is more than 50% directly owned and controlled by one or more individuals (who are citizens or permanent resident aliens of the United States), other business concerns (each of which is more than 50% directly owned and controlled by
individuals who are citizens or permanent resident aliens of the United States), an Indian
tribe, ANC (Alaska Native Corporation) or NHO (Native Hawaiian Organization) (or a
wholly owned business entity of such tribe, ANC or NHO), or any combination of these;
OR
 ii. Be a joint venture in which each entity to the joint venture must meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph c(i) of this section.
 d. Has, including its affiliates, not more than 500 employees and meets the other regulatory requirements found in 13 CFR Part 121. Business concerns, other than investment companies licensed,
or state development companies qualifying under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, 15
U.S.C. 661, et seq., are affiliates of one another when either directly or indirectly, (a) one concern controls or has the power to control the other; or (b) a third-party/parties controls or has the
power to control both.
Control can be exercised through common ownership, common management, and contractual relationships. The term "affiliates" is defined in greater detail in 13 CFR Part 121.3-2(a). The term "number
of employees" is defined in 13 CFR Part 121.3-2(t).
Business concerns include, but are not limited to, any individual (sole proprietorship), partnership, corporation, joint venture, association, or cooperative. Further information may be obtained by contacting
the Small Business Administration Size District Office.
18.5.2.1 Place of Performance
For both Phase I and Phase II SBIR/STTR awards, the research or R&D project activity must be performed in its entirety in the United States. (The United States is defined as the 50 States, the territories
and possessions of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Federated States of
Micronesia, the Republic of Palau, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the District of Columbia.)
In those rare instances where the study design requires use of a foreign site (e.g., to conduct testing of
specific patient populations or if a supply or material is not available in the United States), the investigator must provide compelling scientific justification in the application that it is not possible to perform
the R&D project activity in the United States and for the need / use of a foreign site. NIH no longer
recognizes foreign subawards. Therefore, the only arrangements that will be considered are foreign consultants, foreign vendors or non-monetary international collaborations. NIH will consider these instances
on a case-by-case basis, and they should be discussed with cognizant NIH staff before submitting an
application. Approval will not be considered unless the application is being considered for an award and
applicants may be required to provide additional justification. IC GMOs have the authority to approve
these waiver requests. Whether the request is approved or disapproved, it will be explicitly addressed in
the NoA if an award is made. Whenever possible, work outside the United States, which is necessary to
the completion of the project, should be supported by funding other than SBIR / STTR.
18.5.2.2 Change in Organization Size & Change of Recipient Institution Actions
Applicant organization eligibility is determined at the time of the initial SBIR / STTR award. In the case
where an organization grows to be other than small, NIH may exercise its ability to perform a review to
determine whether the SBIR / STTR award will continue. At the time of continuation award, the size and
eligibility status of the small business organization for the SBIR/STTR program will be reassessed and
no new or continuation awards will be issued to ineligible organizations.
(GPS page IIB-134)

In alignment with NIH GPS Section 8.1.2.8 Change in Recipient Organizational Status and NIHGPS Section 8.1.3 Requests for Prior Approval, recipients must give NIH advance notice for legal actions such as
merger, acquisition, and successor-in-interest as soon as possible, but no later than 30 days before the
proposed change, so that NIH can determine if the organization will continue to meet the SBIR /STTR
program eligibility requirements.
In the case of a legal action such as a merger, acquisition, or successor-in-interest action for a small business organization, the transferee organization must recertify its small business status in order for NIH to
revise currently active SBIR / STTR awards to reflect the transferee as the recipient of record.  However,
if the legal action changes the organization size so that they cannot recertify its small business status, rendering it ineligible for the SBIR / STTR programs, existing SBIR / STTR awards cannot be awarded
additional funds, including noncompeting continuation awards and supplements to awards. NIH will not
issue change in organization status award to the transferee organization for any SBIR/STTR awards, as
the organization is ineligible for the SBIR/STTR program.  Additionally, all existing SBIR/STTR awards
issued to the original recipient will be terminated.
When there is a desire to transfer an SBIR/STTR grant to a different organization, the new organization
must continue to meet the SBIR / STTR program eligibility requirements. Recipients should contact the
NIH awarding office to discuss options when considering a move to a new organization.
18.5.2.3 Minimum Level of Effort
Generally, under SBIR Phase I awards, a minimum of two-thirds or 67 percent of the research or analytical effort must be carried out by the SBC. Payments, in the aggregate, to consultants, consortium participants and contractors for portions of the scientific/technical effort generally may not exceed 33
percent of the total requested amount.
Generally, under SBIR Phase II awards a minimum of one-half or 50 percent of the research or analytical effort must be carried out by the SBC. In addition, payments, in the aggregate, to consultants, consortium participants, and contractors for portions of the scientific/technical effort generally may not
exceed 50 percent of the total requested amount.
Deviations from these requirements may be considered on a case-by-case basis for SBIR only and must
be approved in writing by the awarding IC.
For CRP awards, a SBC may subcontract a substantial portion of its CRP award to third parties through
consultant and contractual arrangements. The SBC must perform a substantive role in planned research
and not merely serve as a conduit of funds to another party or parties. At minimum (depending on the
nature of out-sourced effort), this includes being able to provide appropriate oversight of all scientific,
programmatic, financial, and administrative matters related to the grant.
For STTR awards (both Phase I and Phase II), at least 40 percent of the work must be performed by the
SBC and at least 30 percent of the work must be performed by the single, non-profit research institution.
These percentages are Congressionally mandated and waivers are not permitted. The basis for determining the percentage of work to be performed by each of the cooperating parties is the total cost (direct
and indirect costs, and fee) attributable to each party, unless otherwise described and justified in the
“Consortium/Contractual Arrangements” portion of the of the grant application.
18.5.2.4 Multiple Program Director/Principal Investigator Applications and Awards
The Multiple Program Director/Principal Investigator (multiple PD/PI) option is available for NIH SBIR
/ STTR applicants for team science efforts. All of the policy and requirements described in Multi PD/PI
apply to SBIR/STTR projects, with the exception of sections that are not relevant to the SBIR/STTR pro-
(GPS page IIB-135)

gram (e.g., new investigators, multi-project applications). In addition, the following criteria apply to multiple PD/PI SBC applicants and awards:
 l The small business concern (SBC) is always the applicant/awardee organization. Organizations
other than the SBC with PD/PIs participating in the multiple PD/PI project, including the STTR
non-profit research institution partner, are subcontractors to the SBC.
 l For Phase I  SBIR projects, the Contact PD / PI must meet the primary employment requirement;
other PD / PIs are not required to meet the requirement. Primary employment means that more
than one half of the PD/PI's time is spent in the employ of the SBC at the time of award and during the conduct of the proposed project. However, deviations from this requirement are allowable under exceptional circumstances (such as unexpected loss of a PD/PI or to mitigate negative
effects on employment benefits) and must be approved in writing by the awarding IC. To receive
a deviation a small business must show:
 l Significant PI employment at the company;
 l Significant commitment of the PI to the project;
 l Commitment to transition the PI to 51% or more employment in the Phase II.
 l For Phase II SBIR and CRP projects, the Contact PD/PI must meet the primary employment
requirement; other PD/PIs are not required to meet the requirement. Deviations from this requirement in Phase II are extremely rare (e.g., the unexpected passing of a PD/PI) and must be
approved in writing by the awarding IC.
 l For Phase I and Phase II STTR projects, the PD/PI is not required to be employed by the SBC.
However, the Contact PD/PI, the first PD/PI listed, must have a formal appointment with, or
commitment to, the SBC, which must be in the form of an official relationship between the
parties, but need not include a salary or other form of remuneration. Each PD/PI on a multiple
PD/PI award must commit a minimum of 1.2 calendar months (10% effort) to the project.
 l An STTR applicant organization must officially affiliate a PD/PI with the SBC in the eRA Commons if the PD/PI is not an employee of the SBC.
 l A Phase IIB Competing Renewal or CRP submitted as a multiple PD/PI application requesting
support for a project previously supported through a single PD/PI award should state the changes
in the Project's direct and management that led to the proposed multiple PD/PI model.
18.5.3 Public Policy Requirements and Objectives
For-profit organizations receiving SBIR/STTR awards generally are subject to the same public policy
requirements as non-profit organizations. However, the requirements concerning reporting of financial
conflicts of interest (see Public Policy Requirements, Objectives, and Other Appropriation Mandates—
Financial Conflict of Interest in IIA) do not apply to applications or awards under Phase I of the
SBIR/STTR programs. The requirements do, however, apply to Phase II, Phase IIB and CRP applications and awards.
Consistent with SBA program policy directives and NIH’s omnibus NOFOs for SBIR and STTR, when
purchasing equipment or a product under the SBIR/STTR award, the small business concern should purchase only American-made items whenever possible.
18.5.3.1 Required Disclosures of Foreign Affiliations or Relationships to Foreign
Countries
As required under the SBIR and STTR Extension Act of 2022, NIH has implemented a due diligence program designed to assess security risks and deny funding of an award when foreign relationships or
(GPS page IIB-136)

commitments with countries of concern pose a significant risk. The due diligence program assesses the
cybersecurity practices, patent analysis, employee analysis, and foreign ownership of an SBC seeking an
award, including the financial ties and obligations of the SBC and employees of the SBC to a foreign
country, foreign person, or foreign entity. Applicants to the SBIR/STTR programs, as well as active
SBIR/STTR awards, are subject to review under this due diligence program.
Each SBC applying for SBIR/STTR awards is required to disclose all funded and unfunded relationships
with foreign countries for all owners and covered individuals. A covered individual is defined as all
senior key personnel identified by the SBC in the application (i.e., individuals who contribute to the scientific development or execution of a project in a substantive, measurable way). Upon request, applicants
will submit the completed Required Disclosures of Foreign Affiliations or Relationships to Foreign Countries form  via the Just-In-Time (JIT) process described in NIHGPS section 2.5.1 Just-in-Time Procedures
. Prior to issuing an award, NIH will assess the  application, including JIT elements and the disclosure
form. Based on the outcomes of the assessment, , NIH may request additional documentation (e.g., copy
of contractual or financial obligation or other agreement) specific to an arrangement with an enterprise
owned by a foreign state or any foreign entity in effect during the 5-year period (calendar year) preceding submission of the proposal. Based on the security risks identified during the assessment, NIH
may decline to move forward with an award.  Generally, SBC applicants will not have the opportunity to
address any identified security risks prior to award.
Recipients with active SBIR/STTR awards that did not undergo foreign risk assessment at the time of
their original application may be required to disclose all funded and unfunded relationships with foreign
countries using the Required Disclosures of Foreign Affiliations or Relationships to Foreign Countries
form. If a recipient reports a covered foreign relationship that meets any of the risk criteria prohibiting
funding, NIH may deem it necessary to terminate the award for material failure to comply with the federal statutes, regulations, or terms and conditions of the federal award (see NIHGPS Section 8.5.2 Remedies for Noncompliance or Enforcement Actions: Suspension, Termination, and Withholding of
Support) .
For additional information on the due diligence program, see the Foreign Disclosure and Risk Management webpage , which contains foreign risk review areas and foreign risk case studies.
18.5.4 Allowable Costs and Fee
18.5.4.1 Program Levels (Total Costs)
The SBA SBIR and STTR Policy Directive provides program levels for SBIR and STTR programs based
on statutory guidelines. Agencies have the discretion to issue awards up to the SBA  guideline  when the
proposed budget and requested period of support are fully justified and scientifically appropriate in relation to the proposed research.  The Small Business Administration may adjust award guidelines annually.
The current SBA budget levels can be found on NIH's SBIR web page.
As written in the statute and under appropriate circumstances, NIH has received waivers from SBA to
issue an award exceeding the SBA budget levels for Phase I or  for Phase II if this cap will interfere with
NIH’s ability to meet its mission. See NIH's SBIR web page for a current list of waiver topics.
Applicants must request an appropriate level in the competing application; applications will not be adjusted after submission.
18.5.4.2 Profit or Fee
A reasonable profit or fee may be paid to an SBC receiving an award under Phase I, Phase II or CRP of
the SBIR and STTR programs. However, this profit or fee must be included in the budget request at the
(GPS page IIB-137)

time of application. The profit or fee is not considered a “cost” for purposes of determining allowable
use, program income accountability, or audit thresholds. The profit or fee may be used by the SBC for
any purpose, including additional effort under the SBIR/STTR award. It is intended to provide a reasonable profit consistent with normal profit margins for for-profit organizations for R&D work; however,
the amount of the profit or fee normally will not exceed seven (7) percent of total costs (direct and indirect) for each phase of the project. The profit or fee should be drawn from PMS in increments proportional to the drawdown of funds for direct and indirect costs. The profit or fee applies solely to the
SBC receiving the SBIR/STTR award and not to any other participant; however, in accordance with normal commercial practice, the SBC may pay a profit or fee to a contractor providing routine goods or services to the SBC under the grant.
18.5.4.3 Indirect Costs
18.5.4.3.1 Phase I
If the applicant SBC has a currently effective indirect cost rate(s) with a Federal agency, such rate(s)
should be used when calculating proposed indirect costs for an NIH application.  (However, the rates(s)
must be adjusted for IR&D expenses, which are not allowable under HHS awards.) If the applicant SBC
does not have a currently effective negotiated indirect cost rate with a Federal agency, the applicant
should propose estimated indirect costs at a rate not to exceed 40 percent of the total direct costs.
However, SBCs are reminded that only actual indirect costs are to be charged to projects. (If awarded at
a rate of 40 percent or less, the rate used to charge actual indirect costs to projects cannot exceed the
awarded rate unless the SBC negotiates an indirect cost rate(s) with a Federal agency.) NIH will not
negotiate indirect cost rates for Phase I awards.
18.5.4.3.2 Phase II and CRP
If the applicant SBC has a currently effective negotiated indirect cost rate(s) with a Federal agency, such
rate(s) should be used when calculating proposed indirect costs for an NIH application. (However, the
rates(s) must be adjusted for IR&D expenses, which are not allowable under HHS awards.) If the applicant SBC does not have a currently effective negotiated indirect cost rate with a Federal agency, the
applicant should propose an estimated indirect cost rate in the application. If the requested indirect cost
rate is 40 percent of total direct costs or less, no further justification is required at the time of award, and
indirect costs will be awarded at the requested rate. However, SBCs are reminded that only actual indirect costs may be charged to projects. If awarded at a rate of 40 percent or less of total direct costs, the
rate used to charge actual indirect costs to projects cannot exceed the awarded rate unless the SBC negotiates an indirect cost rate(s) with DFAS. DFAS—the office authorized to negotiate indirect cost rates
with SBC’s receiving NIH SBIR/STTR awards—will negotiate indirect cost rates for SBCs receiving
Phase II or CRP awards that requested a rate greater than 40 percent of total direct costs.
Upon request, the applicant SBC should provide DFAS with an indirect cost proposal and supporting financial data for its most recently completed fiscal year. If financial data is not available for the most
recently completed fiscal year, the applicant should submit a proposal showing estimated rates with supporting documentation. Further information about DFAS is available at its web site or by telephone (see
Part III).
18.5.5 Administrative Requirements
For-profit organizations that receive SBIR/STTR awards generally are subject to the same administrative
requirements as non-profit organizations. (See 2 CFR Part 200.)
(GPS page IIB-138)

18.5.5.1 Market Research
NIH will not support market research, including studies of the literature that lead to a new or expanded
statement of work, under the grant except for the Technical and Business Assistance (TABA) funds or
with the Commercialization Readiness Pilot (CRP). No SBIR/STTR funds (direct or indirect costs) can
be used to support commercialization. For purposes of the SBIR/STTR programs, “market research” is
the systematic gathering, editing, recording, computing, and analyzing of data about problems relating to
the sale and distribution of the subject of the proposed research. It includes various types of research,
such as the size of potential markets and potential sales volume, the identification of consumers most apt
to purchase the products, and the advertising media most likely to stimulate their purchases. However,
“market research” does not include activities under a research plan or protocol that include a survey of
the public as part of the objectives of the project to determine the impact of the subject of the research
on the behavior of individuals.
18.5.5.2 Intellectual Property
Rights to data, including software developed under the terms of any funding agreement resulting from an
NIH award, shall remain with the recipient except that any such copyrighted material shall be subject to
a royalty-free, nonexclusive and irrevocable license to the Federal government to reproduce, publish or
otherwise use the material, and to authorize others to do so for Federal purposes. In addition, under the
SBIR/STTR programs, in contrast to awards to for-profit organizations under other support mechanisms,
such data shall not be released outside the Federal government without the recipient’s permission for a
period of 20 years from completion of the project.
Rights in Data Developed Under SBIR Funding Agreement. Section 9 of the Small Business Act, as
amended (15 U.S.C. 638) provides for “retention by a small business concern of the rights to data generated by the concern in the performance of an [SBIR/STTR] award for a period of not less than 4
years.”
 1. The Act provides for retention by a small business concern (SBC) award recipient of the rights
to data generated by the concern in the performance of an SBIR/STTR award. These data rights
provide an incentive for SBCs to participate in Federally-funded research projects and contribute
to the ability of small business recipients to commercialize the technology developed under the
program. The central purpose of SBIR/STTR data rights is to provide the Federal Government
with the degree of access to a recipient’s SBIR/STTR data needed to evaluate the work and
effectively utilize the results and at the same time ensure that the Federal Government or other
concerns cannot use SBIR/STTR data in ways (e.g., for commercial purposes or to produce
future technical procurement specifications) that would inappropriately diminish the rights or
associated economic opportunities of the small business that developed the data. The
SBIR/STTR data rights provisions and definitions are designed to ensure that, for properly
marked SBIR/STTR data, during the SBIR/STTR protection period, the Federal Government
provides effective protection of the data that is comparable to and at least as strong as the protection the Federal Government gives to delivered proprietary data that is developed exclusively
at private expense.
(GPS page IIB-139)

2.  SBIR/STTR participating agencies must ensure that recipients of an SBIR/STTR funding agreement retain appropriate proprietary rights for all SBIR/STTR data generated in the performance
of the award. In general, this results in the Government receiving SBIR/STTR data rights in all
SBIR/STTR data during the SBIR/STTR protection period, except for certain types of data that
are not subject to such data rights restrictions due to the nature of the data (e.g., Form, Fit, and
Function Data or OMIT Data). SBIR/STTR data rights apply to all SBIR/STTR awards, including subcontracts or subgrants to such awards, that fall within the statutory definition of Phase I,
II, or III of the SBIR/STTR programs, as described in § 4 of the SBA Policy Directive effective
May 2, 2019. The scope and extent of the SBIR/STTR data rights applicable to Federally-funded
Phase III awards are identical to the SBIR/STTR data rights applicable to Phases I and II
SBIR/STTR awards. SBIR/STTR data rights provide license rights to the Federal Government.
SBIR/STTR data rights restrict the Federal Government’s use and release of properly marked
SBIR/STTR data only during the SBIR/STTR protection period; after the protection period, the
Federal Government has a royalty-free license to use, and to authorize others to use on its behalf,
these data for government purposes, and is relieved of disclosure prohibitions related to such government purposes, and assumes no liability for unauthorized use of these data by third parties.
The Federal Government receives unlimited rights in Form, Fit, and Function Data, OMIT Data,
and all unmarked SBIR/STTR data.
 3. 3. SBIR/STTR Data Rights – Main Elements:
 a. An SBC retains title and ownership of all SBIR/STTR data it develops or generates in
the performance of an SBIR/STTR award. The SBC retains all rights in SBIR/STTR
data that are not granted to the Government in accordance with the SBA Policy Directive. These rights of the SBC do not expire.
 b. The Government receives SBIR/STTR data rights during the SBIR/STTR protection
period on all appropriately marked SBIR/STTR data. These rights enable the Federal
Government to use SBIR/STTR data in limited ways within the Government, such as for
project evaluation purposes, but are intended to prohibit uses and disclosures of the
SBIR/STTR data that may undermine the SBC’s future commercialization of the associated technology. The Government receives unlimited rights in Form, Fit, and Function
Data, OMIT Data, and all unmarked SBIR/STTR data.
 c. After the SBIR/STTR protection period has expired, the Federal Government may use,
and authorize others to use on its behalf, for government purposes, SBIR/STTR data that
was subject to SBIR/STTR data rights during the SBIR/STTR protection period.
 4. The SBIR/STTR protection period begins with award of an SBIR/STTR funding agreement and
ends twenty years, or longer at the discretion of the participating agency, from the date of award
of an SBIR/STTR funding agreement (either Phase I, Phase II, or Federally-funded SBIR/STTR
Phase III) unless subsequent to the award, the agency and the SBC negotiate for some other protection period for the SBIR/STTR data.
(GPS page IIB-140)

5. To receive the protections accorded to SBIR/STTR data pursuant to SBIR/STTR data rights, any
SBIR/STTR data that is delivered must be marked with the appropriate SBIR/STTR data rights
legend or notice, in accordance with agency procedures. The Government assumes no liability
for the access, use, modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, disclosure, or distribution of SBIR/STTR data without markings. If SBIR/STTR data is delivered without the
required legend or notice, the SBIR/STTR recipient may, within 6 months of such delivery (or a
longer period approved by the agency for good cause shown), request to have an omitted
SBIR/STTR data legend or notice, as applicable, placed on qualifying data. If SBIR/STTR data
is delivered with an incorrect or nonconforming legend or notice, the agency may correct or permit correction at the recipient’s expense of such incorrect or nonconforming notice(s).
 6. Negotiated Rights:
 a. An agency must not, in any way, make issuance of an SBIR/STTR award conditional
upon the recipient negotiating or consenting to negotiate a specially negotiated license or
other agreement regarding SBIR/STTR data. The negotiation of any such specially negotiated license agreements shall be permitted only after award.
 b. Following issuance of an SBIR/STTR award, the recipient may enter into a written agreement with the awarding agency to modify the license rights that would otherwise be granted to the agency during the SBIR/STTR protection period. However, any such
agreement must be entered into voluntarily and by mutual agreement of the SBIR/STTR
recipient and agency, and not a condition for additional work under the funding agreement or the exercise of options. Such a bilateral data rights agreement must be entered
into only after the subject SBIR/STTR award (which award must include an appropriate
SBIR/STTR data rights clause) has been signed. Any such specially negotiated license
must be in writing under a separate agreement after the SBIR/STTR funding agreement
is signed. A decision by the recipient to relinquish, transfer, or modify in any way its
rights in SBIR/STTR data must be made without pressure or coercion by the agency or
any other party. Any provision in a competitive non-SBIR or SBIR solicitation that
would have the effect of diminishing SBIR/STTR data rights shall have no effect on the
provision of SBIR/STTR data rights in a resulting Phase I, Phase II, or Phase III award.
 7. To ensure that SBIR/STTR recipients receive the applicable data rights, all SBIR and STTR solicitations and resulting funding agreements must fully implement all of the policies, procedures,
and requirements set forth in the SBA Policy Directive in appropriate provisions and clauses
incorporated into the SBIR/STTR solicitations and awards. Paragraph (5)(d)(3) of Appendix I:
Instructions for Preparation of SBIR/STTR Program Solicitations in the SBA Policy Directive
provides a sample SBIR/STTR data rights clause containing the key elements that must be reflected in the clause used in Federal Agency solicitations. SBA will report to the Congress any
attempt or action by an agency, that it is aware of, to condition an SBIR or STTR award on the
negotiation of lesser data rights or to exclude the appropriate data rights clause from the award.
The STTR program requires that the small business recipient and the single, non-profit research institution execute an agreement allocating between the parties intellectual property rights and rights, if any,
to carry out follow-on research, development, or commercialization of the subject research. By signing
the face page of the grant application, the SBC’s AOR certifies that the agreement with the research institution is satisfactory to the SBC and will be effective at the time the grant award is made. Prior to award
a copy of the agreement must be furnished to the NIH awarding IC.
SBIR/STTR recipients are covered by 35 U.S.C. 200-212 and 37 CFR Part 401 with respect to inventions and patents (see Grants to For-Profit Organizations—Administrative Requirements—Intellectual
Property in this chapter).
(GPS page IIB-141)

18.5.5.3 Data Sharing
SBIR and STTR applicants must comply with NIH DMS policy as modified by the Small Business Act.
If the final data would not be amenable to sharing, e.g., proprietary data, the SBC should explain that in
the application. In addition, as indicated under Intellectual Property in this chapter, whether or not the
award meets the threshold for data sharing, NIH will not release data outside the Federal government
without the recipient’s permission for a period of 20 years from completion of the project.
18.5.5.4 SBIR Life Cycle Certification
All SBIR Phase I and Phase II recipients must complete a Life Cycle Certification at all times set forth
in the Notice of Award (see §8(j) of the SBIR Policy Directive). This includes checking all of the boxes
and having an authorized officer of the recipient sign and date the certification each time it is required.
A certification is required at the following times:
 l For SBIR Phase I Recipients: At the time of receiving final payment or disbursement from the
Payment Management System.
 l For SBIR Phase II Recipients: prior to receiving more than 50% of the total award amount and
prior to final payment or disbursement from the Payment Management System.
SBIR grant recipients are required to submit the Life Cycle Certifications within the I-RPPR and the F-
RPPR under Section G.1: Special Notice of Award and Notice of Funding Opportunity Reporting
Requirements.  SBIR recipients should not select the “Nothing to Report” box in this section.  The F-
RPPR and I-RPPR must be submitted via eRA Commons no later than 120 calendar days from the
period of performance end date.  I-RPPR or F-RPPR will not be accepted unless all completed Life Cycle
Certification(s) are received.  Failure to provide all required completed certification(s) may cause NIH to
take one or more actions that may include, but are not limited to, corrective actions, withholding of further awards, suspension or termination.
This does not impact the SBIR Funding Agreement Certification required by all SBIR applicants for new
or renewal grants that is required prior to award of a new award or a competing renewal award.
In addition, SBIR recipients indicate compliance with these certification requirements by drawing or
requesting funds from the Payment Management System.  If the recipient cannot complete the certification or cannot ensure compliance with the certification process, it should notify the GMO immediately.  If resolution cannot be reached, the GMO will void or terminate the grant, as appropriate.
The certification form is available in fillable format.  However, the requirements are outlined below.
Overview Certification Information. The Federal government relies on this information ensure compliance with specific program requirements during the life of the award.  The definitions for the terms
used in the certification are set forth in the Small Business Act, the SBIR Policy Directive and also any
statutory and regulatory provisions referenced in those authorities.
If the Grants Management Officer believes, after award, that the business is not meeting certain funding
agreement requirements, the agency may request further clarification and supporting documentation in
order to assist in the verification of any of the information provided.
Even if correct information has been included in other materials submitted to the Federal government,
any action taken with respect to the certification does not affect the Government’s right to pursue criminal, civil, or administrative remedies for incorrect or incomplete information given in the certification.
Each person signing a certification may be prosecuted if they have provided false information.
Recipients will verify and certify the following provisions:
(GPS page IIB-142)

1. The principal investigator spent more than half of their time (based on a 40-hour work week) as
an employee of the recipient or has requested and received a written deviation from this requirement from the Grants Management Officer.  When a deviation has been approved by NIH, the
certification will also document the adjusted percentage of time approved.
 2. All, essentially equivalent work, or a portion of the work performed under this project:
 a. Has not been submitted for funding to NIH or another Federal agency.
 b. Has been submitted for funding to NIH or another Federal agency but has not been funded under any other grant, contract, subcontract, or other transaction.
 c. A portion has been funded by another grant, contract, or subcontract as described in
detail in the proposal and approved in writing by the Grants Management Officer.
 3. Upon completion of the award the recipient will have performed the applicable percentage of
work, unless a deviation from this requirement is approved in writing by the Grants Management
Officer. Options on the certification document will include:
 a. SBIR Phase I: at least two-thirds (66 2/3%) of the research
 b. SBIR Phase II: at least half (50%) of the research
 c. Percent deviation approved in writing by the Grants Management Officer
 4. The work is completed and the small business recipient has performed the applicable percentage
of work, unless a deviation from this requirement is approved in writing by the Grants Management Officer. Options on the certification document will include:
 a. SBIR Phase I: at least two-thirds (66 2/3%) of the research
 b. SBIR Phase II: at least half (50%) of the research
 c. Percent deviation approved in writing by the Grants Management Officer
 d. N/A because work is not completed
 5. The research / research and development is performed in the United States unless a deviation is
approved in writing by the Grants Management Officer.
 6. The research / research and development is performed at recipient's facilities with the recipient's
employees, except as otherwise indicated in the SBIR application and approved in the Notice of
Award.
The recipient will notify the Federal agency immediately if all or a portion of the work authorized and
funded under the award is subsequently funded by another Federal agency.
The recipient will further certify that they understand that the information submitted may be given to
Federal, State and local agencies for determining violations of law and other purposes.
Finally, the individual certifying on behalf of the recipient will certify they are:
 1. An officer of the business concern authorized to represent it and sign the certification on its
behalf.
 2. Representing on their own behalf, and on behalf of the business concern, that the information
provided in the certification, the application, and all other information submitted in connection
with the award, is true and correct as of the date of submission.
(GPS page IIB-143)

3. Acknowledging that any intentional or negligent misrepresentation of the information contained
in the certification may result in criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including but not limited to: (1) fines, restitution and/or imprisonment under 18 U.S.C. § 1001; (2) treble damages
and civil penalties under the False Claims Act (31 U.S.C. § 3729 et seq.); (3) double damages
and civil penalties under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act (31 U.S.C. §3801 et seq.); (4)
civil recovery of award funds; (5) suspension and/or debarment from all Federal procurement
and nonprocurement transactions (FAR Subpart 9.4 or 2 C.F.R. part 180); and (6) other administrative penalties including termination of SBIR/STTR awards.
18.5.5.5 STTR Life Cycle Certification
All STTR Phase I and Phase II recipients must complete a Life Cycle Certification at all times set forth
in the Notice of Award (see §8(j) of the SBIR Policy Directive). This includes checking all  the boxes on
the actual certification document and having an authorized officer of the recipient sign and date the certification each time it is required.
A certification is required at the following times:
 l For STTR Phase I Recipients: At the time of receiving final payment or disbursement from the
Payment Management System.
 l For STTR Phase II Recipients: prior to receiving more than 50% of the total award amount and
prior to final payment or disbursement from the Payment Management System.
STTR grant recipients are required to submit the Life Cycle Certifications within the I-RPPR and the F-
RPPR under Section G.1: Special Notice of Award and Notice of Funding Opportunity Reporting
Requirements.  STTR recipients should not select the “Nothing to Report” box in this section.  The F-
RPPR and I-RPPR must be submitted via eRA Commons no later than 120 calendar days from the
period of performance end date.  I-RPPR or F-RPPR will not be accepted unless all completed Life Cycle
Certification(s) are received.  Failure to provide all required completed certification(s) may cause NIH to
take one or more actions that may include, but are not limited to, corrective actions, withholding of further awards, suspension or termination.
This does not impact the STTR Funding Agreement Certification required by all STTR applicants for
new or renewal grants that is required prior to award of a new award or a competing renewal award.
In addition, STTR recipients indicate compliance with these certification requirements by drawing or
requesting funds from the Payment Management System.  If the recipient cannot complete the certification or cannot ensure compliance with the certification process, it should notify the GMO immediately.  If resolution cannot be reached, the GMO will void or terminate the grant, as appropriate.
The certification is available in fillable format, however, the requirements are outlined below.
Overview Certification Information. Please read carefully the following certification statements.  The
Federal government relies on this information to determine whether the business is eligible for a Small
Business Technology Transfer Research (STTR) Program award.  The definitions for the terms used in
the certification are set forth in the Small Business Act, SBA regulations (13 C.F.R. Part 121), the STTR
Policy Directive and also any statutory and regulatory provisions references in those authorities.
If the Grants Management Officer believes, after award, that the business is not meeting certain funding
agreement requirements, the agency may request further clarification and supporting documentation in
order to assist in the verification of any of the information provided.
Even if correct information has been included in other materials submitted to the Federal government,
any action taken with respect to the certification does not affect the Government’s right to pursue
(GPS page IIB-144)

criminal, civil, or administrative remedies for incorrect or incomplete information given in the certification.  Each person signing a certification may be prosecuted if they have provided false information.
Recipients will verify and certify the following provisions:
 1. The principal investigator spent more than half of their time as an employee of the recipient or
the research institution, or the recipient has requested and received a written deviation from this
requirement from the Grants Management Officer.  When a deviation has been approved by NIH,
the certification will also document the adjusted percentage of time approved.
 2. All, essentially equivalent work, or a portion of the work performed under this project:
 a. Has not been submitted for funding by another Federal agency.
 b. Has been submitted for funding by another Federal agency but has not been funded
under any other Federal grant, contract, subcontract, or other transaction.
 c. A portion has been funded by another grant, contract, or subcontract as described in
detail in the proposal and approved in writing by the Grants Management Officer.
 3. Upon completion of the award it will have performed the applicable percentage of work, unless a
deviation from this requirement is approved in writing by the Grants Management Officer.
Options on the certification document will include:
 a. STTR Phase I: at least forty (40%) of the research
 b. STTR Phase II: at least forty (40%) of the research
 c. Percent deviation approved in writing by the Grants Management Officer
 4. The small business concern, and not the single, partnering Research Institution, is exercising
management direction and control of the performance of the STTR funding agreement.
 5. The work is completed and it has performed the applicable percentage of work, unless a deviation from this requirement is approved in writing by the Grants Management Officer. Options
on the certification document will include:
 a. STTR Phase I: at least forty (40%) of the research
 b. STTR Phase II: at least forty (40%) of the research
 c. Percent deviation approved in writing by the Grants Management Officer
 d. N/A because work is not completed
 6. The research / research and development is performed in the United States unless a deviation is
approved in writing by the Grants Management Officer.
 7. The research / research and development is performed at Recipient's facilities with Recipient's
employees, except as otherwise indicated in the STTR application and approved in the Notice of
Award.
The recipient will notify the Federal agency immediately if all or a portion of the work proposed is subsequently funded by another Federal agency.
The recipient will further certify that they understand that the information submitted may be given to
Federal, State and local agencies for determining violations of law and other purposes.
Finally, the individual certifying on behalf of the recipient will certify they are:
 1. An officer of the business concern authorized to represent it and sign the certification on its
behalf.
(GPS page IIB-145)

2. Representing on their own behalf, and on behalf of the business concern, that the information
provided in the certification, the application, and all other information submitted in connection
with the award, is true and correct as of the date of submission.
 3. Acknowledging that any intentional or negligent misrepresentation of the information contained
in the certification may result in criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including but not limited to: (1) fines, restitution and/or imprisonment under 18 U.S.C. § 1001; (2) treble damages
and civil penalties under the False Claims Act (31 U.S.C. § 3729 et seq.); (3) double damages
and civil penalties under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act (31 U.S.C. §3801 et seq.); (4)
civil recovery of award funds; (5) suspension and/or debarment from all Federal procurement
and nonprocurement transactions (FAR Subpart 9.4 or 2 C.F.R. part 180); and (6) other administrative penalties including termination of SBIR/STTR awards.
18.5.5.6 Prior Approval of New Subawards
SBIR  and STTR recipients are required to seek prior approval when adding a new subaward  to a project
post award, where the arrangement was not originally a part of the peer reviewed and approved application. All prior approval requests for SBIR and STTR awards must be submitted through the eRA Commons Prior Approval Module in accordance with NIHGPS section 8.1.3. Per the Foreign Disclosure
Form policy (see NIHGPS Section 18.5.3.1 Foreign Disclosure Pre-Award and Post-Award Requirements), the recipient must either submit an updated SBIR STTR Foreign Disclosure Form or include a
statement in the prior approval request noting that there are no updates to the SBIR STTR Foreign Disclosure Form.  A foreign risk assessment is required for the entity selected for the subaward when the
prior approval request is submitted through submission of an updated SBIR STTR Foreign Disclosure
Form via the “SBIR STTR Foreign Disclosure Request for Additional Materials” (RAM) feature in eRA
Commons. The recipient must receive official written approval notification from the NIH Grants Management Official prior to signing a subaward agreement.
An SBC will be required to repay all amounts received from NIH under the award if either of the following determinations are made upon assessment of a change to their disclosure:
 l the SBC makes a material misstatement that NIH determines poses a risk to national security; or
 l there is a change in ownership, change in entity structure, or other substantial change in circumstances of the SBC that NIH determines poses a risk to national security.
As a general reminder, SBIR and STTR recipients are strongly encouraged to consult with their designated Grants Management Official identified on the Notice of Award as early as possible when considering changes to the project that require prior approval as outlined in NIHGPS Section 8.1.2. Prior
Approval Requirements.
NIH no longer recognizes foreign subawards. All international research collaborations must use the collaborative international research award mechanism.
18.5.5.7 Monitoring Requirements for Relationships with Foreign Countries of Concern Post-Award
SBIR/STTR recipients are responsible for monitoring their relationships with foreign countries of concern post-award for any changes that may impact previous disclosures and are required to submit an
updated disclosure form to report any of the following changes to NIH throughout the duration of the
award:
• any change to a disclosure on the disclosure form;
• any material misstatement that poses a risk to national security; and
(GPS page IIB-146)

• any change of ownership, change to entity structure, or other substantial change in circumstances of the
SBC that NIH determines poses a risk to national security.
Regular, annual updates are required at the time of all SBIR/STTR annual, interim, and final Research
Performance Progress Reports (RPPRs). For changes that occur between RPPR submissions, updated disclosure forms are required within 30 days of any change in ownership, entity structure, covered individual, or other substantive changes in circumstance, as described above. Recipients will be required to
upload these updated disclosures using the Foreign Disclosure Request for Additional Materials (RAM)
feature in eRA Commons.
If the recipient reports a covered foreign relationship that meets any of the risk criteria prohibiting funding described in this guidance, NIH may deem it necessary to terminate the award for material failure to
comply with the federal statutes, regulations, or terms and conditions of the federal award. Refer to
NIHGPS Section 8.5.2 Remedies for Noncompliance or Enforcement Actions: Suspension, Termination,
and Withholding of Support for more information. Recipients are encouraged to monitor their covered
foreign relationships post-award and avoid entering into relationships, both funded and unfunded, that
may pose a security risk and jeopardize their ability to retain their award.
Recovery Authority and Repayment of Funds
SBIR/STTR recipients will be required to repay all amounts received from NIH under the award if either
of the following determinations are made upon assessment of a change to their disclosure:
 l the recipient makes a material misstatement that NIH determines poses a risk to national security; or
 l there is a change in ownership, change in entity structure, or other substantial change in circumstances of the recipient SBC that NIH determines poses a risk to national security.
The repayment requirements and procedures provided in NIHGPS Section 8.5.4 Recovery of Funds
apply and may also be subject to additional noncompliance and enforcement actions as described in
NIHGPS Section 8.5.2. Recipients are required to follow the repayment procedures provided in the Guidance for Repayment of Grant Funds to the NIH.
18.5.5.8 Final RPPR
Phase I Final RPPR: If a Phase I recipient does not intend to submit a Phase II application within four
months of the Phase I project period end date, then Phase I Final RPPR must be submitted to the Grants
Management Office of the Awarding Component within 120 days of the completion date of the Phase I
grant period. An Interim-RPPR is required if an application for a Phase II or Phase IIB, respectively, is
submitted before a final report for the Phase I award would otherwise be due. In the event that the Type
2/Phase II/Phase IIB application is funded, NIH will treat the Interim –RPPR as the annual performance
report for the final year of the previous competitive segment. If the Type 2 is not funded, the Interim-
RPPR will be treated by NIH staff as the institution’s Final-RPPR.
Final RPPR Phase I, Phase II, Phase IIB, CRP: Instructions for the Final RPPR are found on NIH's
web site. See in particular, Chapter 7.3, SBIR/STTR RPPRs.
18.5.5.9 Phase II Data Collection Requirement for Government SBIR Reporting
Database
Phase II Data Collection Requirement for Government SBIR Reporting Database:  The SBA maintains
a Database System on SBIR.gov to track and report on statistics regarding the SBIR and the STTR programs.  Each small business concern applying for a Phase II award is required to update the appropriate
information in the reporting database on SBIR.gov for any of its prior Phase II awards.
(GPS page IIB-147)

In meeting this requirement, the small business concern may apportion sales or additional investment
information relating to more than one Phase II award among those awards, if it notes the apportionment
for each award. Each Phase II recipient is required to update the appropriate information in the SBIR.gov
database on that award upon completion of the last deliverable (e.g., Final RPPR, Federal Financial
Report, Final Invention Statement) under the funding agreement. In addition, the recipient is requested to
voluntarily update the appropriate information on that award in the SBIR.gov database annually thereafter for a minimum period of 5 years.
Questions about this requirement may be submitted to SBA directly through the Contact Us/Send Feedback link on SBIR.gov. To register on and use the database system, visit SBIR.gov. Online help is available. SBA will minimize the data reporting requirements of small business concerns, make updating
available electronically, and provide standardized procedures.
Project commercialization and sales data can only be viewed by authorized Government Officials, with
the approval of the SBA. This includes Congress, General Accounting Office (GAO), SBIR/STTR Participating Agencies, Office of Management and Budget (OMB), Office of Science and Technology
Policy (OSTP), Office of Federal Procurement Policy (OFPP), and other authorized persons (for
example, authorized contractors) who are subject to a non-disclosure  agreement (NDA) with the Federal
Government covering the use of the databases. These databases are used for the purposes of evaluating
and determining eligibility for the SBIR/STTR program, in accordance with Policy Directives issued by
SBA. Pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 638(k)(4), information provided to the SBIR.gov database is privileged and
confidential and not subject to disclosure pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552 (Government Organization and
Employees); nor must it be considered to be publication for purposes of 35 U.S.C. 102 (a) or (b).
Examples of the data to be entered by applicants into SBIR.gov include revenue from the sale of new
products or services resulting from the research conducted under each Phase II award or additional investment from any source, other than Phase I or Phase II awards, to further the research and development
conducted under each Phase II award.
(GPS page IIB-148)
