NIH Grants Policy Statement (FY 2026 revision) — Chapter 13: Modular Applications and Awards
Source: https://grants.nih.gov/policy-and-compliance/nihgps

13 MODULAR APPLICATIONS AND AWARDS
13.1 GENERAL
Modular applications and awards employ a simplified process for developing and reviewing application
budgets, documenting approved budgets, and making post-award budgetary changes.
13.2 APPLICABILITY
Modular procedures are required to be used for new, renewal, and resubmission applications as well as
for revisions for the following grants and their cooperative agreement equivalents that request up to a
total of $250,000 of direct costs per year (excluding consortium indirect costs), regardless of whether the
application is an investigator-initiated application or is one submitted in response to a PA/RFA: Research
Project Grants Program (R01/U01), Small Grant Program (R03), Exploratory/Development Research
Grant Award (R21/UH2), Clinical Trial Planning Grant Program (R34/U34) and Academic Research
Enhancement Awards (R15/UA5). Modular procedures do not apply to SBIR and STTR Phase I grants
(R43 and R41), and do not apply to foreign (non-U.S.) organizations.
Instructions for specific grant mechanisms other than the R01 and guidelines for IC programs may indicate a particular number or range of modules allowed.
Modular applications and awards may also be subject to other simplified procedures, specifically Just-in-
Time requirements and SNAP.
13.3 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS
Modular applications must be submitted on the SF424 (R&R) forms. Paper-based applications that
include modular budgets will no longer be accepted.
13.3.1 Budget
Modular applications request direct cost funding in modules of $25,000, for up to $250,000 each year for
covered activity codes. Indirect costs for subcontracts are not included in determining the direct cost
modular amount or the total cost amount requested. The modules should be a reasonable estimate of
allowable, allocable, and reasonable costs for the proposed project. In addition, indirect costs at the negotiated rate for the applicant institution are also allowable.
Since only limited budget information is required for submission of a modular application, the PHS 398
Modular Budget Component, which is included as part of the electronic SF424 (R&R) form set, must be
submitted to NIH through Grants.gov. Sample modular application budget pages are available at
Develop Your Budget. The standard SF 424 Research and Related Budget Component is not used for
application using modular budgets.
The PHS 398 Modular Budget Component includes information on direct costs modules as well as indirect costs; budget justifications for all personnel by position, role, and level of effort (measured in person
months); consultants; and ‘to be appointed’ positions. No individual salary information should be
provided. Applicants must use the current legislatively imposed salary limitation when determining the
number of modules to request (see Cost Considerations—Allowability of Costs/Activities—Selected
Items of Cost—Salaries and Wages in IIA). Given the authority to rebudget and carry forward unobligated balances, funds generally should be available to cover modest increases in any statutorily imposed
salary cap. NIH also limits the compensation for graduate students. Compensation includes salary or
(GPS page IIB-100)

wages, fringe benefits, and tuition remission. These limits should be used when estimating the number of
modules. See Cost Considerations—Allowability of Costs/Activities—Selected Items of Cost—Salaries
and Wages in IIA for more information on compensation of graduate students.
When applicable, a separate budget justification must address consortium/contractual costs (including
applicable indirect costs) rounded to the nearest $1,000. The narrative should list the individuals and
organizations with whom consortium or contractual arrangements have been (or will be) made, the level
of effort of senior/key personnel (measured in person months) and their role on the project, and indicate
whether the collaborating organization is foreign or domestic.
A typical modular application will request the same number of modules for each year. However, well-justified modular increments (up to the $250,000 modular ceiling) or decrements in the total direct costs for
any year of the project that reflect substantial changes in expected future activities may be requested at
the outset. For example, a major equipment purchase in the first year may justify a higher overall budget
in that year, but not necessarily in succeeding years. There is no provision for escalation in future years.
NIH requires additional narrative budget justification if there is a variation in the number of modules
requested from year to year. Further, when the pre-award review warrants such a request, NIH ICs may
request a detailed budget as part of the Just-in-Time process.
13.4 APPLICATION REVIEW AND AWARD
SRGs evaluate the budget on the basis of a general, expert estimate of the total effort and resources
required to carry out the proposed research. If the SRG recommends an adjustment in the project budget,
the recommended adjustment will be in terms of an entire module.
Following peer review, for applications being considered for award, the IC will request information
about “Other Support” and, as applicable, the use of human subjects or vertebrate animals, and education
in the protection of human research participants. Additional budget information will be requested before
award only under special circumstances.
NIH will attempt to make awards at or close to the level of total direct costs recommended by the SRG,
taking other support into account. An IC may need to reduce the award amount to accommodate the IC’s
cost management plan.
The award budget will be a noncategorical budget specifying approved total direct costs and indirect
costs, if applicable.
13.5 POST-AWARD ADMINISTRATION
Recipients have discretion in determining how to allocate and account for costs related to modular
awards within their organizational accounting system. However, institutions are still required to ensure
that all costs charged to modular awards are in accordance with applicable costs principles, the NIHGPS,
and any legislatively imposed restrictions.
Modular awards are subject to the standard NIH Terms of Award and may be awarded under the SNAP
authorities. However, since the award is issued without direct cost budget categories, the significant
rebudgeting provision described as a potential change of scope indicator does not apply to modular
grants.
Recipients may submit requests for administrative supplements to the CGMO of the NIH awarding IC,
but must provide a detailed (non-modular) budget.
Competing Revisions should be submitted to NIH using the modular budget component.
(GPS page IIB-101)
