NIH Grants Policy Statement (FY 2026 revision) — Chapter 3: Overview of Terms and Conditions
Source: https://grants.nih.gov/policy-and-compliance/nihgps

PART II: TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF NIH GRANT
AWARDS
Subpart A: General
3 OVERVIEW OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Part II includes the terms and conditions of NIH grants and cooperative agreements and is incorporated
by reference in all NIH grant and cooperative agreement awards. Subpart A (IIA) includes those terms
and conditions that apply, in general, to NIH awards. Subpart B (IIB) either expands on IIA coverage or
specifies additional or alternate terms and conditions for particular types of awards, recipients, or activities.
These terms and conditions are not intended to be all-inclusive. All awards or a specified subset of
awards also may be subject to additional requirements, such as those included in executive orders and
appropriations acts.
NIH recipients are responsible for complying with all requirements of the Federal award. NIH grants
awards are based on the application submitted to, and approved by, the NIH and are subject to the terms
and conditions incorporated either directly or by reference in the following:
 l The grant program legislation and program regulation cited in the NoA.
 l The NIH Grants Policy Statement, including addenda in effect as of the beginning date of the
budget period.
 l Conditions on activities and expenditure of funds in other statutory requirements, such as those
included in appropriations acts. This also includes any recent legislation.
 l 2 CFR Part 200.
 l The NoA including all terms and conditions cited on the document or attachments.
Notice of requirements not specified in the NIHGPS generally will be provided in the NoA, but such
notice is not required for the award to be subject to the requirements of pertinent statutes and regulations.
An individual award also may contain award-specific terms and conditions. For example, the GMO may
include terms or conditions necessary to address concerns about an applicant’s management systems.
Program and administrative policies and the terms and conditions of individual awards are intended to
supplement, rather than substitute for, governing statutory and regulatory requirements. Thus, the requirements of the NIHGPS apply in addition to governing statutory and regulatory requirements not cited
herein, and award-specific terms apply in addition to the requirements of the NIHGPS.
This NIHGPS is an aid to the interpretation of statutory and regulatory requirements. These terms and
conditions are intended to be compliant with governing statutes and the requirements of 2 CFR Part 200,
as modified by previously approved waivers and deviations. However, in the case of a conflict, the statutes and regulations govern.
If there is a perceived conflict between or among these three categories of requirements—statutory and
regulatory requirements, the terms and conditions in the NIHGPS, and award-specific terms and conditions—or if the recipient has other questions concerning award terms and conditions, the recipient
(GPS page IIA-1)

should request written clarification from the GMO. This may be done at any time; however, if the inclusion of the term or condition would cause the recipient not to accept the award or to be unable to comply, the question should be raised before funds are requested from the HHS payment system. By drawing
funds from the HHS payment system, the recipient agrees to the terms and conditions of the award.
3.1 FEDERALWIDE STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
FOR RESEARCH GRANTS
In order to create greater consistency in the administration of Federal research awards, all Federal
research agencies now utilize a standard core set of administrative terms and conditions on research and
research-related awards that are subject to 2 CFR Part 200,  to the extent practicable. The  core set of
administrative requirements for participating Federal research agencies and other pertinent documents
are posted on the National Science Foundation's web site. Recipients are encouraged to review the companion documents which include a Prior Approval Matrix, National Policy Requirement Matrix,
Subaward Requirement Matrix, and Agency-Specific Requirements. NIH implementation of these Federalwide research terms and conditions is also known as the "NIH Standard Terms of Award".
 See Administrative Requirements—Changes in Project and Budget—NIH Standard Terms of Award for
more details.
(GPS page IIA-2)
