NIH Grants Policy Statement (FY 2026 revision) — Chapter 8: Administrative Requirements
Source: https://grants.nih.gov/policy-and-compliance/nihgps

8 ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS
8.1 CHANGES IN PROJECT AND BUDGET
In general, NIH recipients are allowed a certain degree of latitude to rebudget within and between budget
categories to meet unanticipated needs and to make other types of post-award changes. Some changes
may be made at the recipient’s discretion as long as they are within the limits established by NIH. In
other cases, NIH prior written approval may be required before a recipient makes certain budget modifications or undertakes particular activities. The recipient-initiated changes that may be made under the
recipient’s authority and the changes that require NIH approval are outlined below and, with respect to
particular types of awards, activities, or recipients, in Subpart IIB. In addition, individual awards may
restrict recipients’ authorities to make budget and project changes without NIH prior approval. If NIH
approval is required, it must be requested of, and obtained in writing from, the awarding IC GMO in
advance of the change or obligation of funds as specified later in this chapter under Requests for Prior
Approval.
Recipients are required to notify NIH of developments that have a significant impact on the award-supported activities as soon as they become known. This includes significant changes to Other Support (e.g.
new appointments or affiliations) that occur during the award. Also, notification shall be given in the
case of problems, delays, or adverse conditions which materially impair the ability to meet the objectives
of the award. This notification shall include a statement of the action taken or contemplated, and any
assistance needed to resolve the situation.
Changes in project or budget resulting from NIH-initiated actions are discussed in other sections of this
chapter.
8.1.1 NIH Standard Terms of Award
Federal administrative requirements allow agencies to waive certain cost-related and administrative prior
approvals; these are known as expanded authorities. In 2001, NIH extended expanded authorities to all
NIH awards except for the provision to automatically carry over unobligated balances. Certain award
instruments, grant programs, and types of recipients are routinely excluded from the authority to automatically carry over unobligated balances. This includes centers (P50, P60, P30, and others); cooperative
agreements (U); Kirschstein-NRSA institutional research training grants (T); non-Fast Track Phase 1
SBIR and STTR awards (R43 and R41); clinical trials (regardless of activity code); and awards to individuals.
One or more of these authorities may be overridden by a specific term or condition of the award. Recipients must review the NoA to determine if a particular authority is withheld for a specific grant.
Recipients must exercise proper stewardship over Federal funds and ensure that costs charged to awards
are allowable, allocable, reasonable, necessary, and consistently applied regardless of the source of
funds. NIH may disallow the costs if it determines, through audit or otherwise, that the costs do not meet
the tests of allowability, allocability, reasonableness, necessity, and consistency.
Several authorities have specific deadlines for submission of reports or for timely notification to the NIH
awarding IC. Recipients should be aware that any consistent pattern of failure to adhere to those deadlines for reporting or notification will be grounds for excluding that recipient from a specific authority.
Exhibit 6. Summary of NIH Standard Terms of Award
(GPS page IIA-106)

Recipient Authorities as NIH Standard Terms of
Award
Exceptions
Carryover of unobligated balances from one budget
period to any subsequent period
Centers (P50, P60, P30 and others), cooperative
agreements (U), Kirschstein-NRSA institutional
research training grants (T), non-Fast Track Phase
I SBIR and STTR awards (R43 and R41), clinical
trials, and awards to individuals, or if the NoA
indicates otherwise.
Cost-related prior approval changes, including
research patient care costs and equipment
The cost would result in a change of scope.
Extension of final budget period of a project period
without additional NIH funds (no-cost extension)
The recipient has already exercised its one-time
authority to extend the award for up to 12 months;
the NIH awarding IC has previously extended the
project period; and/or a project is multi-year for 5
years (i.e., the entire 5-year project period is funded
by a single award).
Transfer of performance of substantive
programmatic work to a third party (by consortium
agreement)
SBIR and STTR awards or the transfer would be to
a foreign component that does not result in an
international collaboration (formerly known as a
foreign subaward) or it would result in a change in
scope.
Direct charge the salaries of administrative and
clerical staff if conditions in 2 CFR Part 200.413  are
met and the charges also meet the criteria for
allowable costs described in 2 CFR Part 200.403.

Direct charge payments of Incidental activities for
which supplemental compensation is allowable
under written institutional policy (at a rate not to
exceed the institutional base salary) 2 CFR
Part 200.430. Such activities must be specifically
provided for in the Federal award budget.

Include charges for Intra-IHE faculty consulting on
sponsored agreements that exceed a faculty
member’s base salary, but only in unusual cases
where: (a) consultation is across departmental lines
or involves a separate or remote operation; and (b)
the consulting work is in addition to the faculty
member’s regular departmental load.

8.1.1.1 Carryover of Unobligated Balances from One Budget Period to Any Subsequent Budget Period
Recipients should be aware that there is a difference between unliquidated obligations and unobligated
balances. Unliquidated obligations are commitments of the recipient and are considered to be obligations
and, therefore, should not be reported as unobligated balances.
(GPS page IIA-107)

The NoA will include a term and condition to indicate the disposition of unobligated balances. The term
and condition will state whether the recipient has automatic carryover authority, or if prior approval is
required by the NIH awarding IC. Note the authority to automatically carry over unobligated balances
includes the authority to carryover from one competitive segment to another.
Automatic carryover of unobligated balances applies to all awards except centers (P50, P60, P30, other),
cooperative agreements (U), Kirschstein-NRSA institutional research training grants (T), non-Fast Track
Phase I SBIR and STTR awards (R43 and R41), clinical trials (regardless of activity code), and awards
to individuals. For these grants, carryover of unobligated balances requires NIH awarding IC prior
approval unless otherwise noted in the NoA. Other awards may be excluded from this authority through
a specific term or condition in the NoA.
For awards under SNAP (see Administrative Requirements—Monitoring—Reporting—Streamlined
Non-Competing Award Process for applicability), funds are automatically carried over to the subsequent
budget period. However, the recipient will be required to indicate, as part of the grant’s progress report,
whether any estimated unobligated balance (including prior-year carryover) is expected to be greater
than 25 percent of the current year’s total approved budget. The total approved budget amount includes
current year and any carryover from prior years of the project period. If the unobligated balance is
greater than 25 percent of the total approved budget, the recipient must provide an explanation and indicate plans for expenditure of those funds within the current budget year.
For awards that require an annual FFR, the amount to be  carried over must be specified under item 12,
“Remarks.”
For both SNAP and non-SNAP, when a recipient reports a balance of unobligated funds in excess of 25
percent of the total amount awarded for the budget period, plus any approved carryover of funds from a
prior year(s), the GMO will review the circumstances resulting in the balance to ensure that these funds
are necessary to complete the project, and may request additional information from the recipient, including a revised budget, as part of the review.
If the GMO determines that some or all of the unobligated funds are not necessary to complete the project, the GMO may restrict the recipient’s authority to automatically carry over unobligated balances in
the future, use the balance to reduce or offset NIH funding for a subsequent budget period, or use a combination of these actions. The GMO also may indicate whether the balance may be carried forward to a
budget period other than the succeeding one. The GMO’s decision about the disposition of the reported
unobligated balance will be reflected in the terms and conditions of the NoA.
All Federal agencies are required by 31 U.S.C. §1552(a) to close fixed year appropriation accounts and
cancel any remaining balances by September 30 of the fifth fiscal year after the year of availability,
unless otherwise authorized by Congress. In order for NIH to meet its obligation to close these accounts
and cancel any remaining balances by September 30th, recipients must report disbursements on the  FFR
no later than August 31st of the fifth fiscal year after the year of availability. At the end of five years, the
funds are cancelled and returned to the Treasury. This provision may limit the availability of funds for
carryover.
8.1.1.2 Cost-Related Prior Approvals
NIH prior approval is not required to rebudget funds for any direct cost item that the applicable cost principles identify as requiring the Federal awarding agency’s prior approval, unless the incurrence of costs
is associated with or is considered to be a change in scope.
(GPS page IIA-108)

8.1.1.3 Extension of Final Budget Period of a Previously Approved Project Period
without Additional NIH Funds
The recipient may extend the final budget period of the previously approved project period one time for
a period of up to 12 months beyond the original completion date shown in the NoA if:
 l no term of award specifically prohibits the extension,
 l no additional funds are required to be obligated by the NIH awarding IC, and
 l the project’s originally approved scope will not change.
Such an action affirms that additional work remains to be completed on the project and that resources are
available to continue to support the project, or that additional time is needed to provide for an orderly
closeout. The fact that funds remain at the completion date of the grant is not, in itself, sufficient justification for an extension without additional funds.
With the exception of grant programs that have an effort requirement, or where terms and conditions prohibit such reductions, NIH will not require prior approval for the reduction in effort for Senior/Key personnel named in the NOA.  The recipient is reminded that active awards must have a measurable level of
effort.
Recipients must use the eRA Commons No-Cost Extension feature to electronically notify NIH that they
are exercising their one-time authority to extend without funds the completion date of an award. This
extension feature becomes available to the recipient 90 days before the project period end date.  Extensions may be up to 12 months beyond the final budget period end date. In the eRA Commons, this notification can be made up to the last day of the current project end date. An e-mail notification is
automatically sent to the GMO. No further action by the recipient is required.
Notifications may not be submitted via e-mail or fax. If a no-cost extension notification is submitted late,
the eRA Commons No-Cost Extension feature cannot be used.  Instead, the extension notification
becomes a request and that requires the approval of the IC GMO.  Recipients who miss the window (or
opportunity) to extend the grant in eRA Commons must submit a written prior approval request to the
NIH awarding IC for consideration.  (See Administrative Requirements—Prior Approval Requirements
for extension requiring additional funds.)
In extending the final budget period of the project period through this process, the recipient agrees to
update all required certifications and assurances, including but not limited to those pertaining to human
subjects and vertebrate animals, in accordance with applicable regulations and policies. Recipients are
reminded that all terms and conditions of the award apply during the extension period.
Recipients may not extend project periods that were previously extended by the NIH awarding IC. Any
additional project period extension requires NIH prior approval. (See Administrative Requirements—
Prior Approval Requirements for extensions requiring additional funds.)
All Federal agencies are required by 31 U.S.C. §1552(a) to close fixed year appropriation accounts and
cancel any remaining balances by September 30 of the fifth fiscal year after the year of availability. In
order for NIH to meet its obligation to close these accounts and cancel any remaining balances by
September 30, recipients must report disbursements on the quarterly cash transaction report (using the
FFR) no later than August 31st of the fifth fiscal year after the year of availability. At the end of five
years, the funds are cancelled and returned to the Treasury. This provision may limit or eliminate this
authority to extend the final budget period when an entire project period is funded by a single award
(e.g., multiyear funded awards).
The provisions in this subsection do not apply to fellowship awards.
(GPS page IIA-109)

8.1.1.4 Transfer of the Performance of Substantive Programmatic Work to a Third
Party by Means of a Consortium Agreement
Prior approval by the NIH awarding IC is not required to transfer the performance of already peer
reviewed programmatic work unless the activity constitutes a change in scope or results in the transfer of
substantive programmatic work to a foreign component. NIH no longer recognizes foreign subawards.
Collaborative international research projects will only be considered in competing applications. New
international collaborations may not be requested post-award.
8.1.1.5 Direct Charging Salaries of Administrative and Clerical Staff
The salaries of administrative and clerical staff should normally be treated as indirect  costs. Direct charging of these costs may be appropriate only if all of the following conditions are met:
 1. Administrative or clerical services are integral to a project or activity;
 2. Individuals involved can be specifically identified with the project or activity;
 3. Such costs are explicitly included in the budget; and
 4. The costs are not also recovered as indirect costs.
Such charges must also meet the criteria for allowable costs described in 2 CFR Part 200.403.
NIH prior approval is not required to rebudget funds for this direct cost item post-award. Prior approval
is only required when additional funds are being requested for such a position.
8.1.1.6 Supplemental Compensation under Written Institutional Policy for IHEs
IHEs may direct charge payments of incidental activities for which supplemental compensation is allowable under written institutional policy (at a rate not to exceed the institutional base salary) and not
include them in the records described in 2 CFR Part 200.430. Such activities must be specifically
provided for in the Federal award budget.
8.1.1.7 Intra-IHE Faculty Consulting that Exceed a Faculty Member's Base Salary,
Under Certain Conditions.
IHEs may include charges for Intra-IHE faculty consulting on sponsored agreements that exceed a faculty member’s base salary, but only in unusual cases where: (a) consultation is across departmental lines
or involves a separate or remote operation; and (b) the consulting work is in addition to the faculty member’s regular departmental load.
8.1.2 Prior Approval Requirements
This section describes the activities and/or expenditures that require NIH prior approval. NIH prior
approval requirements are summarized in Exhibit 7, which is provided for guidance only. For the prior
approval requirements specified in the exhibit, approval is required whether or not the change has a
budgetary impact. The circumstances under which prior approval is required also are summarized in the
exhibit.
Recipients also should consult Subpart IIB for prior approval requirements that apply to specific mechanisms, types of grants, and types of recipients.
Any question about the need for prior approval for an activity or cost under a specific NIH award should
be directed to the GMO.
Exhibit 7. Summary of Actions Requiring NIH Prior Approval
(GPS page IIA-110)

NIH prior approval is required
for
Under the following circumstances
Additional no-cost extension,
extension greater than 12
months, or late notification of initial no-cost extension (8.1.2.1)
All instances.
A&R (8.1.2.2)
Rebudgeting into A&R costs that would exceed 25 percent of the total
approved budget for a budget period.
If rebudgeting would not meet this threshold but would result in a
change in scope.
Addition of a Major single A&R project.
Capital expenditures (construction, land, or building
acquisition) (8.1.2.3)
All instances. Also, any proposals to convey, transfer, assign, mortgage, lease, or in any other manner encumber real property acquired
with NIH grant funds.
Carryover of unobligated balances (8.1.2.4)
If the NoA indicates that the recipient does not have the authority to
automatically carry over unobligated balances.
Change in scope (8.1.2.5)
All instances.
Change in status of the PD/PI
or senior/key personnel named
in the NoA (8.1.2.6)
A significant change in the status including but not limited to withdrawal
from the project; absence for any continuous period of 3 months or
more; reduction of the level of time or effort devoted to project by 25 percent or more from what was approved in the initial competing year
award.
Change of recipient organization (8.1.2.7)
All instances.
Change of recipient organization status (8.1.2.8)
All instances.
Deviation from award terms
and conditions (8.1.2.9)
All instances. Includes undertaking any activities disapproved or restricted as a condition of the award.
Foreign component added to a
grant to a domestic or foreign
organization (8.1.2.10)
All instances.
Make subawards based on
fixed amounts (8.1.2.11)
All instances
Need for additional NIH funding
(8.1.2.12 and 8.1.2.13)
All instances, including extension of a final budget period of a project
period with additional funds.
Pre-award costs (8.1.2.14)
More than 90 days before effective date of the initial budget period of a
new or competing continuation award; always at the recipient’s own
risk.
(GPS page IIA-111)

NIH prior approval is required
for
Under the following circumstances
Rebudgeting funds from trainee
costs (8.1.2.15)
All instances.
Rebudgeting of funds between
construction and non-construction work (8.1.2.16)
All instances.
Retention of research grant
funds when CDA awarded
(8.1.2.17)
All instances.
8.1.2.1 Additional No-cost Extension or Extension Greater Than 12 Months or Late
Notification of Initial No-Cost Extension
The NIH Standard Terms of Award provide the recipient the authority to extend the final budget period
of a previously approved project period one time for a period of up to 12 months beyond the original
completion date down in the NoA. Any additional project period extension beyond the initial extension
of up to 12 months requires NIH prior approval. The request should include a description of the project
activities that require support during the extension and a statement about the funds available to support
the extension. Further any late notification of the initial no-cost extension provided by the NIH Standard
Terms of Award also requires prior approval.
All Federal agencies are required by 31 U.S.C. §1552(a) to close fixed year appropriation accounts and
cancel any remaining balances by September 30 of the fifth fiscal year after the year of availability,
unless otherwise authorized by Congress. In order for NIH to meet its obligation to close these accounts
and cancel any remaining balances by September 30, recipients must report disbursements on the  FFR no
later than August 31st of the fifth fiscal year after the year of availability. At the end of five years, the
funds are cancelled and returned to the Treasury. This provision may limit NIH’s ability to further
extend the final budget period.
8.1.2.2 Alterations and Renovations
NIH prior approval is required if a recipient wishes to rebudget more than 25 percent of the total
approved budget for a budget period into A&R costs. NIH prior approval also is required for lesser
rebudgeting into A &R costs if the rebudgeting would result in a change in scope. If rebudgeting results
in the addition of a Major A&R project, NIH will consider the rebudgeting to be a change in scope. (See
the Construction Grants chapter in IIB for documentation requirements for Major A&R projects).
8.1.2.3 Capital Expenditures
Capital expenditures for land or buildings require NIH prior approval. In addition, real property acquired
with NIH grant funds may not be conveyed, transferred, assigned, mortgaged, leased, or in any other
manner encumbered by the recipient without the written prior approval of the NIH awarding IC or its successor organization.
8.1.2.4 Carryover of Unobligated Balances
The NoA will include a term and condition to indicate the disposition of unobligated balances. The term
and condition will state whether the recipient has automatic carryover authority or if prior approval is
(GPS page IIA-112)

required by the NIH awarding IC. When NIH prior approval is required, the AOR should submit a
request to the GMO that includes at a minimum the following information:
 l A detailed budget by direct cost category with the indirect cost information (base and rate) for
the proposed use of the carryover funds. If personnel costs are requested, include a detailed
breakdown of personnel costs, including base salary, salary requested and effort to be spent on
the project during the extension. In general, carryover action requiring prior approval will be
approved using the indirect rate that was in effect at the time the initial funds were awarded for
the year to which the funds are being carried over. For example, if the carryover is approved
from year -01 to year -03, the indirect cost rate used to calculate the revised -03 year award will
be the rate used to initially calculate year -03. However, actual expenditures will still be based
on the rate applicable when the cost is incurred.
 l A scientific justification for the use of funds.
 l The reason for the unobligated balance.
8.1.2.5 Change in Scope
In general, the PD/PI may make changes in the methodology, approach, or other aspects of the project
objectives. However, the recipient must obtain prior approval from the NIH awarding IC for a change in
scope. A change in scope is a change in the direction, aims, objectives, purposes, or type of research
training, identified in the approved project. The recipient must make the initial determination of the significance of a change and should consult with the GMO as necessary.
Potential indicators of a change in scope include, but are not limited to, the following:
 l Change in the specific aims approved at the time of award.
 l Substitution of one animal model for another.
 l Change from the approved use of live vertebrate animals.
(GPS page IIA-113)

l Change from the approved involvement of human subjects that would result in an increased risk.
This includes:
 o An addition or change that would result in changing the overall human subjects or clinical trial designation of the award;
 l From non-human subjects research to research involving human subjects
(exempt or non-exempt);
 l From exempt to non-exempt research involving human subjects; or
 l From “No Clinical Trial” to “Includes a Clinical Trial.” Requests for this change
must be submitted to a clinical trial NOFO as a competitive revision. See NIH
definition of clinical trial and 2.3.5 — Types of Notices of Funding Opportunity.
 o The new inclusion of subject populations that are covered by additional regulatory protections under 45 CFR Part 46 subparts B, C or D (pregnant women, human fetuses, and
neonates; prisoners; or children).
 o Any change to the study protocol that would increase the risk level for subjects including physical, psychological, financial, legal or other risks. This could include the addition of a new study population that would be at higher risk from existing research
procedures, the addition of new study procedures that are greater than minimal risk, any
modification of existing study procedures that would increase overall risk, or the addition of a new clinical study or a new clinical trial intervention arm not originally proposed that is greater than minimal risk.
 o New information indicating a higher level of risk to participants than previously recognized for a study intervention, procedure, or pharmacological treatment.
 l Shift of the research emphasis from one disease area to another.
 l A clinical hold by FDA under a study involving an IND or an IDE.
 l Application of a new technology, e.g., changing assays from those approved to a different type
of assay.
 l Transfer of the performance of substantive programmatic work to a third party through a consortium agreement, by contract, or any other means. If the third party is a foreign component that
does not result in a foreign subaward, NIH prior approval is always required.  NIH no longer
recognizes foreign subawards. Collaborative international research projects will only be considered in competing applications. NIH will not approve post-award requests for international
collaborations that were not reviewed and approved as part of the competing application.
 l Change in other senior/key personnel not specifically named in the NoA (see Change in Status,
Including Absence, of PD/PI and Other Senior/Key Personnel Named in the NoA below for
requirements for NIH approval of alternate arrangements for or replacement of named senior/key
personnel).
 l Significant rebudgeting, whether or not the particular expenditure(s) require prior approval. Significant rebudgeting occurs when expenditures in a single direct cost budget category deviate
(increase or decrease) from the categorical commitment level established for the budget period
by 25 percent or more of the total costs awarded. For example, if the award budget for total costs
is $200,000, any rebudgeting that would result in an increase or decrease of more than $50,000
in a budget category is considered significant rebudgeting. The base used for determining significant rebudgeting excludes the effects of prior-year carryover balances but includes competing
and non-competing supplements. Significant rebudgeting does not apply to modular grants.
(GPS page IIA-114)

l Incurrence of research patient care costs if costs in that category were not previously approved
by NIH or if a recipient desires to rebudget additional funds beyond those approved into or
rebudget funds out of the research patient care category.
 l Purchase of a unit of equipment exceeding $25,000.
8.1.2.6 Change in Status, Including Absence of PD/PI and Other Senior/Key Personnel Named in the NoA
The recipient is required to submit a prior approval request to the GMO if:
 l There is a significant change in the status of the PD/PI or other Senior/Key Personnel specifically named in the NoA including but not limited to withdrawing from the project entirely,
being absent from the project during any continuous period of 3 months or more, or reducing
time and effort devoted to the project by 25 percent or more from the level that was approved at
the time of initial competing year award (for example, a proposed change from 40 percent effort
to 30 percent or less effort or in calendar months a change from 4.8 to 3.6 calendar months).
Reductions are cumulative, i.e., the 25% threshold may be reached by two or more successive
reductions that total 25% or more. Once agency approval has been given for a significant change
in the level of effort, then all subsequent reductions are measured against the approved adjusted
level. Selecting Yes in the RPPR constitutes a prior approval request to the agency and the issuance of a subsequent year of funding constitutes agency approval of the request.
 l There is a change from a multiple PD/PI model to a single PD/PI model.
 l There is a change from a single PD/PI model to a multiple PD/PI model.
 l There is a change in the number or makeup of the PD/PIs on a multiple PD/PI award.
NIH must approve any alternate arrangement proposed by the recipient, including any replacement of the
PD/PI or senior/key personnel named in the NoA, and the addition of any new PD/PIs.
The request for prior approval of any additional or substitute PD/PIs or Senior/Key Personnel named in
the NoA, or change from a multiple PD/PI model to a single PD/PI model, must be submitted promptly,
and must be accompanied by a strong scientific justification related to the scientific project, including
any proposed changes in scope, the biographical sketch of any new individuals proposed and other
sources of support, and any budget changes resulting from the proposed change. A new or revised Leadership Plan is required if the request is to change from a single PD/PI model to a multiple PD/PI model,
or to change the number or makeup of the PD/PIs on a multiple PD/PI award. The Commons ID must be
provided for any new PD/PIs.
In addition, because NIH recipients are expected to provide safe and healthful working conditions for
their employees and foster work environments conducive to high-quality research, the request for
approval should include mention as to whether change(s) in PD/PI or Senior/Key Personnel is related to
concerns about safety and/or work environments (bullying, retaliation, or hostile working conditions).
NIH recipient institutions are required to notify NIH when individuals identified as PD/PI or other Senior/Key personnel in an NIH notice of award are removed from their position or are otherwise disciplined
by the recipient institution due to concerns about harassment, bullying, retaliation or hostile working conditions. Notification must be provided by the Authorized Organization Representative within 30 days of
the removal or disciplinary action and must be submitted to NIH through the dedicated web form, Inform
NIH About Harassment or Discrimination Concerns.. All required notifications must include, at a minimum, the name of the Authorized Organization Representative submitting the notification, the name of
the individual of concern, a description of the concerns, the action(s) taken, and any anticipated impact
on the NIH-funded award(s). If it is determined that the concerns shared with NIH will impact the PD/PI
or senior key personnel's ability to continue as the scientific lead of the project, NIH will require prior
(GPS page IIA-115)

approval for a replacement PD/PI or senior key official. NIH will, in turn, be better positioned to enable
informed grant-stewardship decisions regarding matters including, but not limited to, substitute personnel
and institutional management and oversight.
When NIH receives information related to concerns about safety and/or work environments regarding
any PD/PI or Senior/Key Personnel identified in the NIH NOA or RPPR and if, during the course of the
investigation the individual leaves their current position, and is no longer employed by the institution,
the NIH Director may decline transfer of an ongoing extramural award to a different institution if concerns about harassment, bullying, hostile work environment, or other professional misconduct have not
been resolved to the NIH's satisfaction. NIH has full authority to share investigation reports, conclusions,
and the results of any investigation related to harassment, bullying, retaliation, or hostile working conditions on an as needed basis with any institution that receives a grant, cooperative agreement or any
other extramural (e.g. Other Transactions) award.  In order to continue to receive NIH funding, recipient
institutions must complete any investigation undertaken due to concerns about harassment, bullying
retaliation, or hostile working conditions regarding any individual identified as a principal investigator or
key personnel in an NIH notice of award or progress report even if during the course of the investigation
the individual under investigation leaves their current position and is no longer employed by the institution.
If the arrangements proposed by the recipient, including the qualifications of any proposed replacement,
are not acceptable to the NIH awarding IC, the grant may be suspended or terminated. If the recipient
wishes to terminate the project because it cannot make suitable alternate arrangements, it must notify the
GMO, in writing, of its wish to terminate, and NIH will forward closeout instructions.
The requirement to obtain NIH prior approval for a change in status pertains only to those personnel
NIH designates in the NoA regardless of whether the applicant organization designates others as senior/key personnel for its own purposes.
8.1.2.7 Change of Recipient Organization
NIH prior approval is required for the transfer of the legal and administrative responsibility for a grantsupported project or activity from one legal entity to another before the completion date of the approved
project period (competitive segment). A change of recipient organization may be accomplished under
most NIH grants if any of the following conditions are met:
 l The original recipient has agreed to relinquish responsibility for an active project before the completion date of the approved project period. This includes any proposed change of recipient as a
result of a PD/PI on a research project transferring from one organization to another organization. The project under the same PD/PI may be supported at a new organization for a period
up to the remainder of the previously approved project period in an amount not to exceed that
previously recommended for direct costs (plus applicable indirect costs) for the remaining
period.
 l A non-competing continuation award that is within an approved project period has been withheld
because of the recipient’s actions (see Administrative Requirements—Enforcement Actions—
Suspension, Termination, and Withholding of Support).
A request for change of recipient organization should include mention as to whether the change in recipient organization is related to concerns about safety and/or work environments (e.g. due to concerns
about harassment, bullying, retaliation, or hostile working conditions) involving the PD/PI. NIH recipient
organizations are required to notify NIH when individuals identified as PD/PI or other Senior/Key personnel in an NIH notice of award are removed from their position or are otherwise disciplined by the
recipient organization due to concerns about harassment, bullying, retaliation or hostile working conditions. Notification must be provided by the Authorized Organization Representative within 30 days of
(GPS page IIA-116)

the removal or disciplinary action and must be submitted to NIH through a dedicated web form. All
required notifications must include, at a minimum, the name of the Authorized Organization Representative submitting the notification, the name of the individual of concern, a description of the concerns, the action(s) taken, and any anticipated impact on the NIH-funded award(s). If it is determined
that the concerns shared with NIH will impact the PD/PI or senior key personnel's ability to continue as
the scientific lead of the project, NIH will require prior approval for a replacement PD/PI or senior key
official.
NIH will, in turn, be better positioned to enable informed grant-stewardship decisions regarding matters
including, but not limited to, substitute personnel and organizational management and oversight.
NIH expects both the relinquishing and applicant organizations to disclose whether a Change of Recipient Organization is occurring within the context of an ongoing or recent investigation of misconduct of
any kind, including but not limited to professional misconduct or research misconduct.
A change of recipient that involves the transfer of a grant to or between foreign organizations or international organizations also must be approved by the IC’s Advisory Council or Board. A change of recipient for a linked international research project  is not allowed.
A grant to an individual may not be transferred.
A successor-in-interest or a name change is not considered a change of recipient (see Change in Recipient Organizational Status below).
A change of recipient organization may involve the transfer of equipment purchased with grant funds.
The transfer may be accomplished as part of the original recipient’s relinquishment of the grant; otherwise, NIH reserves the right to transfer title to equipment to the new organization as indicated in
Administrative Requirements—Management Systems and Procedures—Property Management System
Standards.
A change of recipient request normally will be permitted only when all of the permanent benefits attributable to the original grant can be transferred, including equipment purchased in whole or in part with
grant funds. In reviewing a request to transfer a grant, NIH will consider whether there is a continued
need for the grant-supported project or activity and the impact of any proposed changes in the scope of
the project. NIH will also consider the length of time, the percentage of funds, and the amount of work
remaining in the project period. A change may be made without peer review, provided the PD/PI plans
no significant change in research objectives and the facilities and resources at the new organization will
allow for successful performance of the project. If these conditions or other programmatic or administrative requirements are not met, the NIH awarding IC may require peer review or may disapprove the
request and, if appropriate, terminate the award.
A change of recipient organization request must be made before the anticipated start date at the new
organization and preferably several months in advance. Failure to provide timely notification may result
in disapproval of the request or significant delays in processing. Recipients are encouraged to discuss
any potential issues with the awarding IC(s) prior to submitting a change of recipient organization
request. If requesting a transfer in the middle of a budget period or at the end of the Federal fiscal year,
recipients should contact the awarding IC for IC-specific guidance on the timing and preparation of the
change of institution application.
A request for a change of recipient organization must be submitted to the GMO. The original institution
must include an Official Statement Relinquishing Interests and Rights in a Public Health Service
Research Grant (PHS 3734) (relinquishing statement). The relinquishing statement may be submitted in
paper or electronically via the eRA Commons. Final FFR Expenditure Data and a Final Invention Statement are due to NIH from the relinquishing organization no later than 120 days after the end of NIH
(GPS page IIA-117)

support of the project. Final FFR Expenditure Data should not be submitted until the original institution
has received a revised NoA for the relinquished grant.
The proposed new recipient organization must provide the GMO with a change of institution application
which may be submitted using the PHS 398 or PHS 416-1 paper application forms, or electronically via
Grants.gov using the Parent Announcement. If the original award was the result of a modular application
and the recipient will submit a paper change of institution application, the modular procedures apply to
the request for change of recipient. If the original award was the result of a modular application and the
recipient will submit an electronic change of institution application, the recipient may submit a detailed
budget or streamlined-detailed budget (as described in the NOFO).
The paper application from the proposed new recipient organization should include, at a minimum, the
following:
 l PHS 398 Face page
 l Budget pages (current and future years). (Under awards resulting from modular applications, the
application should include narrative budget information for the current budget period, including
total direct cost and the basis for computing indirect costs and, if applicable, future budget periods.) Budgets should not exceed the direct costs (plus applicable indirect costs) previously
recommended for any budget period. For transfers in the middle of a budget period, the budget
for the initial year may be based on the total costs relinquished only if the recipient has been
instructed to do so by the awarding IC. For these applications, recipients will also need to
include the Other Project Information and the Senior/Key Personnel components.
 l Updated biographical sketches for the PD/PI and existing senior/key personnel and biographical
sketches for any proposed new senior/key personnel.
 l If transferring on the anniversary date, include the progress report for the current year including
a statement regarding the goals for the upcoming year. For all transfer applications include also a
statement indicating whether the overall research plans/aims have changed from the original submission, and, if so, provide updated information.
 l Updated “other support” page(s), if necessary.
 l Resources page, including probable effect of the move on the project.
 l Checklist page
 l Certification of IRB/IACUC approval, including OHRP and OLAW assurance numbers, if applicable.
 l Detailed list of any equipment purchased with grant funds to be transferred to the new organization (inclusion of this list in the transfer application from the new organization indicates its
acceptance of title to that equipment).
The electronic application from the proposed recipient organization should include, at a minimum, the
following:
 l SF 424 (R&R) Cover Component
 l SF 424 (R&R) Project Performance Site Location(s)
(GPS page IIA-118)

l SF 424 (R&R) Other Project Information:
 o Certification of IRB/IACUC approval, including OHRP and OLAW assurance numbers,
if applicable.
 o Facilities and Other Resources, including probable effect of the move on the project.
 o Detailed list of any equipment purchased with grant funds to be transferred to the new
organization (inclusion of the list in the transfer application from the new organization
indicates its acceptance of title to that equipment).
 l SF 424 (R&R) Senior/Key Person Profile:
 o Updated biographical sketches for the PD/PI and existing senior/key personnel and biographical sketches for any proposed new senior/key personnel, and updated “other support” page(s) as necessary.
 l Budget pages applicable for activity code (current and future years). If the budget for the original
award was submitted in a modular format, use the R&R Detailed Budget form for all electronic
applications. Recipients may either complete all of the fields in the R&R Detailed Budget as
appropriate or complete only the costs for the PD/PI (Section A), and include the remainder of
the direct costs under Section F (Other Direct Costs) Items 8-17, and Section H (Indirect Costs).
(For awards resulting from modular applications, include narrative budget information for the
current budget period, including total direct cost and the basis for computing indirect costs and,
if applicable, future budget periods.) Budgets should not exceed the direct costs previously
recommended for direct costs (plus applicable indirect costs) for any budget period. For transfers
during the course of a budget period, the budget for the initial year may be based on the total
costs relinquished only if the recipient has been instructed to do so by the awarding IC.
 l PHS 398 Research Plan
 o If transferring on the anniversary date, include the progress report for the current year
including a statement regarding the goals for the upcoming year. For all transfer applications include also a statement indicating whether the overall research plans/aims have
changed from the original submission, and, if so, provide updated information.
 l PHS 398 Cover Page Supplement
 l PHS 398 Checklist
And, as applicable:
 l PHS Training Budget Form
 l PHS 398 Career Development Award Supplemental Form
 l PHS 398 Research Training Program Form
 l PHS Human Subjects and Clinical Trial Information Form
 l SBIR/STTR Information
NIH may request additional information necessary to accomplish its review of the request. Acceptance of
a relinquishing statement by NIH does not guarantee approval of a transfer application for the continued
funding of a project.
NIH will accomplish a change of recipient organization by issuing a revised NoA to the original recipient reflecting the revised budget/project period end dates, deletion of any future-year support, and deobligation of remaining funds, if applicable. (A deobligation of funds will be based on the estimated grant
expenditures through the relinquishment date, as determined from the relinquishing statement or the
available balance in PMS, whichever is less.)
(GPS page IIA-119)

Concurrently, the new recipient will receive the NoA reflecting the direct cost balance reported on the
relinquishing statement plus applicable indirect costs, if funds are available. If the change of recipient
organization occurs on the anniversary date of the project, the NoA to the new recipient will reflect the
previously committed direct cost level plus applicable indirect costs if funds are available. If the change
of recipient organization occurs during the course of the budget period, the policy of the awarding IC
will determine if the NoA to the new recipient will reflect the direct cost relinquished by the former
recipient plus applicable indirect costs or the total costs relinquished by the former recipient. This
amount is subject to change as a result of the closeout of the original grant and may be adjusted downward.
A recipient may, at its own risk and without NIH prior approval, incur obligations and expenditures to
cover costs before the beginning date of a transfer award. The recipient may do so only if those costs are
necessary to conduct the project and would not require prior approval if incurred under an awarded
grant. For the purposes of pre-award costs, transfers are treated like non-competing continuation awards.
Therefore, the pre-award costs incurred are not limited to 90 days prior to the beginning date of the initial budget period of that transferred award to the new recipient organization.
8.1.2.8 Change in Recipient Organizational Status
Recipients must give NIH advance notice of the following types of change in organizational status (not a
change of recipient organization as described above):
 l Merger. Legal action resulting in the unification of two or more legal entities. When such an
action involves the transfer of NIH grants, the procedures for recognizing a successor-in-interest
will apply. When the action does not involve the transfer of NIH grants, the procedures for recognizing a name change normally will apply.
 l Successor-in-Interest (SII). Process whereby the rights to and obligations under an NIH grant(s)
are acquired incidental to the transfer of all of the assets of the recipient or the transfer of that
part of the assets involved in the performance of the grant(s). A SII may result from legislative
or other legal action, such as a merger or other corporate change.
 l Name Change. Action whereby the name of an organization is changed without otherwise affecting the rights and obligations of that organization as a recipient.
Advance notification is required to ensure that the recipient remains able to meet its legal and administrative obligations to NIH, and payments are not interrupted.
Recipients are encouraged to contact the GMO of the lead NIH awarding IC to explain the nature of the
change in organizational status and receive guidance on whether it will be treated as a name change or
SII. The lead awarding IC ordinarily will be the IC with which the organization has the most NIH grants.
NIH reserves the right to review the material provided, seek clarification or additional information, and
make an independent determination.
A recipient’s formal request for a change in organizational status should be submitted to NIH as soon as
possible so that NIH can determine whether the organization will continue to meet the grant program’s
eligibility requirements and take the necessary action to reflect the change in advance of the change in
status.
For a SII, a letter signed by the AORs of the current recipient (transferor) and the successor-in-interest
(transferee) must be sent to the lead NIH awarding IC, following consultation with the GMO of that
awarding IC. The letter must include the following:
 l Stipulate that the transfer will be properly affected in accordance with applicable law.
 l Indicate that the transferor relinquishes all rights and interests in all of the affected grants.
(GPS page IIA-120)

l Request that the awarding IC(s) modify its (their) records to reflect the transferee as the recipient
of record.
 l State the effective date of the transfer.
 l Provide the transferee’s EIN. If EIN is new, include completed Form W-9.
 l Include verification of the transferee’s compliance with applicable requirements (e.g., research
misconduct assurance of compliance).
 l Include a list of all affected NIH grants (active and pending) with the following information for
each:
 o Complete grant number (e.g., 5 R01 GM 12345-04).
 o Name(s) of PD/PI(s).
 o Current budget period and project period.
 o The total direct costs (as originally recommended) plus applicable indirect costs for each
remaining budget period. If the SII will occur during a budget period rather than on the
anniversary date, the transferor also must provide estimated levels of current-year direct
and indirect costs remaining as of the SII effective date. The estimate may be reported
on the PHS 3734 (Official Statement Relinquishing Interests and Rights in a Public
Health Service Research Grant), which may be submitted via e-mail or electronically
through the eRA Commons, or may be itemized by grant number as an attachment to the
letter. When an SII occurs during a budget period, the deobligation of funds will be
based on the estimated grant expenditures through the relinquishment date, as reported
on the relinquishing statement or the available balance in PMS, whichever is less.
 l Include a complete face page (PHS 398) for each affected grant showing the transferee as the
applicant organization. Each face page must be signed by an AOR at the transferee organization.

 l Include a copy of the current negotiated indirect cost rate agreement for the transferee.
Recipients may choose to submit an electronic application for a successor-in-interest request to satisfy
the requirement for the face page(s), confirmation of the transferee’s EIN, verification of the transferee’s
compliance with applicable requirements (e.g., research misconduct assurance of compliance), and Relinquishing Statement. The electronic application is submitted via Grants.gov using the Parent Announcement.
In order to be recognized as the SII, the “new” (transferee) organization must meet each grant program’s
eligibility requirements; except for grants awarded under the SBIR/STTR programs. See Small Business
Innovation Research and Small Business Technology Transfer Programs—Eligibility in IIB for additional guidance. Upon review and acceptance of this information, NIH will revise the NoA(s) to show
the transferee as the recipient of record.
For name changes, the recipient’s written notification to the lead NIH awarding IC must include the
effective date of the change. Revised face pages are not required for name changes because name
changes are reported and processed with the next award action (e.g., non-competing continuation award).

8.1.2.9 Deviation from Award Terms and Conditions, including Restrictions in the
NoA
NIH prior approval is required for any deviation from terms or conditions stated or referenced in the
NoA, including those in the NIHGPS. This includes undertaking any activities disapproved or restricted
(GPS page IIA-121)

as a condition of the award.
8.1.2.10 Foreign Component Added to a Grant to a Domestic or Foreign Organization
Adding a non-monetary foreign component under a grant to a domestic or foreign organization requires
NIH prior approval. NIH will not accept nor approve requests to add a foreign subaward to an ongoing
project.
8.1.2.11 Provide Subawards Based on Fixed Amounts
With NIH prior approval, a pass-through entity may provide subawards based on fixed amounts (as
defined in 2 CFR Part 200.201), up to $500,000, to which the following conditions apply:
 1. Fixed amount subawards are negotiated using the cost principles (or other pricing information)
as a guide.  The pass-through entity may use fixed amount subawards if the project scope has specific measurable goals and objectives and if accurate cost, historical, or unit pricing data is available to establish a fixed budget based on a reasonable estimate of actual costs. Budgets for fixed
amount awards are negotiated with the subrecipient and the total amount of Federal funding is
determined in accordance with the subrecipient’s proposal, available pricing data, and using the
cost principles as a model for establishing the fixed amount. Accountability for fixed amount
awards is  based on performance and results,  which can be communicated to the recipient or
pass-through entity using the reporting tool identified in the written subaward agreement, and to
NIH by the direct recipient or pass-through entity in the annual RPPR. There is no expected
routine monitoring of the actual costs incurred by the recipient or subrecipient under the subaward. Therefore, subrecipients are not required to submit Federal Financial Reports. This does
not absolve the subrecipient from the record retention requirements contained in 2 CFR Part
200.334 through 200.338; nor does it absolve the subrecipient of the responsibilities of making
records available for review during an audit. Payments must be based on meeting specific
requirements of the Federal award. Some of the ways in which the fixed amount subaward may
be paid include, but are not limited to:
 a. In several partial payments, the amount of each payment as well as the “milestone” or
event triggering the payment should be agreed to in advance, and included in the subaward;
 b. On a unit price basis, the defined unit(s), or price(s) should be agreed to in advance and
set included in the subaward; or
 c. In one payment at the completion of the subaward.
 2. A fixed amount subaward must not be used in programs that require cost sharing, whether mandatory or administrative.
 3. A fixed amount award may generate and use program income in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the Federal award; however, the requirements for the use of program income
(deduction, addition or cost-sharing) do not apply. (see Administrative Requirements—Management Systems and Procedures—Program Income).
(GPS page IIA-122)

4. At the end of a fixed amount award, the subrecipient must certify in writing to the pass-through
entity that the project was completed as agreed to in the Federal award, or identify those activities that were not completed, and that all expenditures were incurred in accordance with 2 CFR
Part 200.403. When the required activities were not carried out, including fixed amount awards
paid on a unit price basis under 2 CFR Part 200.201(b)(1)(ii), the amount of the Federal award
must be reduced by the amount that reflects the activities that were not completed in accordance
with the Federal award. When the required activities were completed in accordance with the
terms and conditions of the Federal award, the subrecipient is entitled to any unexpended funds.
 5. Periodic reports may be established for each fixed amount subaward.
 6.  Prior approval requirements that apply to fixed amount awards are found at 2 CFR Part 200.308
(f) (paragraphs 1 through 3, 6 through 8, and 10) and § 200.333.
When considering the use of a fix amount subaward, note the distinction between a fixed-amount subaward and a fixed-rate agreement.
 In a fixed amount subaward, the total value of the award is negotiated upfront. This requires the passthrough entity to know both the unit price and the total number of units that will be provided. In a fixedrate agreement, while there is a negotiated cost per unit, e.g. per patient cost in a clinical trial (or participant in a non-Clinical Trial Human Subjects Study), the total amount of the award may be unknown
when the agreement is created. Since this type of agreement is based on a “fixed rate” as opposed to a
“fixed amount” as defined by 2 CFR Part 200.201, prior approval is not required to enter into this type
of agreement provided there are no other factors that would require NIH prior approval consistent with
Transfer of the Performance of Substantive Programmatic Work to a Third Party by Means of a Consortium Agreement.
8.1.2.12 Need for Additional NIH Funding without Extension of Budget and Project
Period
A request for additional funding for a current budget period to meet increased costs that are within the
scope of the approved application, but that were unforeseen when the new or renewal application or
grant progress report for non-competing continuation support was submitted, is a non-competing supplemental application. Such requests must be submitted electronically, for both single and multi-project
awards, and are not required to compete with other applications for funding. Other recipient-initiated
requests for supplemental funding during a current budget period are considered to change the scope of
the approved project and may be required to compete for funding with other applications. When calculating the award for additional funds, NIH will 1) prorate funding if the requested budget is adjusted at
the time of award, and 2) use the institution’s current indirect cost rate; i.e., the rate in effect when the
new funding is provided.
8.1.2.13 Need for Additional NIH Funding with Extension of the Final Budget
Period of a Project Period
A request for a non-competing extension of the final budget period of a project period with a minimal
amount of additional funds should be submitted to the GMO, in writing, at least 30 days before the project period is scheduled to expire. Such requests usually are for a period of up to 12 months and must be
either for work that remains to be completed on the project or to permit orderly phase-out of project
activities for which there will be no further NIH support. Resources must be available to continue to support the project. The request must specify the proposed revised ending date and must include justification
for both the extension and the additional funds requested. Special justification will be required for an
extension that would exceed 12 months. NIH will not approve such requests if the primary purpose of
(GPS page IIA-123)

the proposed extension is to permit the use of unobligated balances of funds. All terms and conditions of
the award apply during the extended period.
All Federal agencies are required by 31 U.S.C. §1552(a) to close fixed year appropriation accounts and
cancel any remaining balances by September 30 of the fifth fiscal year after the year of availability,
unless otherwise authorized by Congress. For NIH to meet its obligation to close these accounts and cancel any remaining balances by September 30, recipients must report disbursements on the FFR no later
than August 31st of the fifth fiscal year after the year of availability. At the end of five years, the funds
are cancelled and returned to the Treasury. This provision may limit NIH’s ability to further extend the
final budget period with funding.
8.1.2.14 Pre-Award Costs
See Cost Considerations—Selected Items of Cost—Pre-Award (Pre-Agreement) Costs.
8.1.2.15 Rebudgeting of Funds from Trainee Costs
The rebudgeting of amounts previously awarded for trainee costs (stipends, tuition, and fees) to other categories of expense requires NIH prior approval. This excludes trainee travel, which NIH does not consider to be a trainee cost, and training-related expenses (see Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research
Service Awards—Institutional Research Training Grants—Rebudgeting of Funds in IIB).
8.1.2.16 Rebudgeting of Funds Between Construction and Non-construction Work
Under awards that provide for both construction and non-construction work, NIH prior approval is
required to transfer funds between the two types of work.
8.1.2.17 Retention of Research Grant Funds When a Career Development Award is
Issued
Funds budgeted under an NIH grant for an individual’s salary and fringe benefits, but available as a result of receiving a K award for that individual, may not be used for any other purpose without NIH prior
approval.
8.1.3 Requests for Prior Approval
Most requests for NIH awarding IC prior approval must be made in writing (including submission by email) to the GMO no later than 30 days before the proposed change, and signed by the AOR. If the
request is e-mailed, it must provide evidence of the AOR’s approval; a cc to the AOR is not acceptable.
SBIR and STTR recipients are required to submit all prior approval requests through the eRA Commons
Prior Approval Module. A request by a subrecipient for prior approval will be addressed in writing to the
recipient. The recipient will promptly review such request and shall approve or disapprove the request in
writing.  A recipient will not approve any budget or project revision which is inconsistent with the purpose or terms and conditions of the Federal-award to the recipient. If the revision, requested by the subrecipient would result in a change to the recipient's approved project which requires Federal prior
approval, the recipient will obtain the awarding IC’s approval before approving the subrecipient's
request. Failure to obtain required prior approval from the appropriate awarding IC may result in the disallowance of costs, termination of the award, or other enforcement action within NIH’s authority. While
the PD/PI signature is no longer required as part of the submission to NIH, the recipient must secure and
retain such a signature for each prior approval request and make it available to NIH or other authorized
DHHS or Federal officials upon request.  When multiple PD/PIs are recognized for a particular grant, this
requirement applies to all PD/PIs.  (See Policies Affecting Applications-Program Director/Principal
Investigator, Individual Fellowship and Sponsor Assurance).
(GPS page IIA-124)

E-mail requests must be clearly identified as prior approval requests, must reflect the complete grant
number in the subject line, and should be sent by the AOR to the GMO that signed the NoA. Contact
information is provided on each NoA and is also available in the eRA Commons. E-mail addresses for
NIH staff can be also obtained from the NIH Enterprise Directory. E-mail requests must include the
name of the recipient, the name of the initiating PD/PI, the PD/PI’s telephone number, fax number, and
e-mail address, and comparable identifying information for the AOR.
The GMO will review the request and provide a response to the AOR indicating the final disposition of
the request, with copies to the PD/PI and to the cognizant NIH PO. Only responses provided by the
GMO are considered valid. Recipients that proceed on the basis of actions by unauthorized officials do
so at their own risk, and NIH is not bound by such responses.
Whenever recipients contemplate rebudgeting or other post-award changes and are uncertain about the
need for prior approval, they are strongly encouraged to consult, in advance, with the GMO.
Under a consortium agreement or contract, the prior approval authority usually is the pass-through entity.
However, the pass-through entity may not approve any action or cost that is inconsistent with the purpose or terms and conditions of the NIH grant. If an action by a consortium participant will result in a
change in the overall grant project or budget requiring NIH approval, the  pass-through entity must obtain
that approval from NIH before giving its approval to the consortium participant.
SBIR and STTR recipients are required to seek prior approval when adding a new domestic subaward to
a project post-award, where the arrangement was not originally a part of the peer reviewed and approved
application. A foreign risk assessment is required for the entity selected for the subaward when the prior
approval request is submitted through submission of an updated SBIR STTR Foreign Disclosure Form
via the “SBIR STTR Foreign Disclosure Request for Additional Materials” (RAM) feature in eRA Commons. The recipient must receive official written approval notification from the NIH Grants Management
Official prior to signing a subaward agreement.
8.2 AVAILABILITY OF RESEARCH RESULTS:
PUBLICATIONS, INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, AND
SHARING RESEARCH RESOURCES
It is NIH policy that the results and accomplishments of the activities that it funds should be made available to the public. PD/PIs and recipient organizations are expected to make the results and accomplishments of their activities available to the research community and to the public at large. (See also
Availability and Confidentiality of Information—Confidentiality of Information—Access to Research
Data in Part I for policies related to providing access to certain research data at public request.) If the outcomes of the research result in inventions, the provisions of the Bayh-Dole Act of 1980, as implemented
in 37 CFR Part 401, apply.
As long as recipients abide by the provisions of the Bayh-Dole Act, as amended by the Technology
Transfer Commercialization Act of 2000 (P.L. 106-404), and 37 CFR Part 401, they have the right to
retain title to any invention conceived or first actually reduced to practice using NIH grant funds. The
principal objectives of these laws and the implementing regulation are to promote commercialization of
federally funded inventions, while ensuring that inventions are used in a manner that promotes free competition and enterprise without unduly encumbering future research and discovery.
The regulation requires the recipient to use patent and licensing processes to transfer grant-supported
technology to industry for development. Alternatively, unpatented research products or resources
“research tools” may be made available through licensing to vendors or other investigators. Sharing of
copyrightable outcomes of research may be in the form of journal articles or other publications.
(GPS page IIA-125)

The importance of each of these outcomes of funded research is reflected in the specific policies pertaining to rights in data, sharing of research data and unique research resources, and inventions and patents described in the following subsections.
8.2.1 Rights in Data (Publication and Copyrighting)
In general, recipients own the rights in data resulting from a grant-supported project. Specific terms and
conditions of the award may indicate alternative rights, e.g., under a cooperative agreement or based on
specific programmatic considerations as stated in the applicable RFA. Except as otherwise provided in
the terms and conditions of the award, any publications, data, or other copyrightable works developed
under an NIH grant may be copyrighted without NIH approval. For this purpose, “data” means recorded
information, regardless of the form or media on which it may be recorded, and includes writings, films,
sound recordings, pictorial reproductions, drawings, designs, or other graphic representations, procedural
manuals, forms, diagrams, work flow charts, equipment descriptions, data files, data processing or computer programs (software), statistical records, and other technical research data.
Rights in data also extend to students, fellows, or trainees under awards whose primary purpose is educational, with the authors free to copyright works without NIH approval. In all cases, NIH must be given
a royalty-free, nonexclusive, and irrevocable license for the Federal government to reproduce, publish, or
otherwise use the material and to authorize others to do so for Federal purposes. Data developed by a
consortium participant also is subject to this policy.
As a means of sharing knowledge, NIH encourages recipients to arrange for publication of NIH-supported original research in primary scientific journals. Recipients also should assert copyright in scientific and technical articles based on data produced under the grant where necessary to effect journal
publication or inclusion in proceedings associated with professional activities.
Journal or other copyright practices are acceptable unless the copyright policy prevents the recipient
from making copies for its own use (as provided in 2 CFR Part 200.315) or prevents the recipient from
being able to comply with NIH policies, including the 2024 NIH Public Access Policy. The disposition
of royalties and other income earned from a copyrighted work is addressed in Administrative Requirements—Management Systems and Procedures—Program Income.
All recipients must acknowledge Federal funding when issuing statements, press releases, requests for
proposals, bid invitations, and other documents describing projects or programs funded in whole or in
part with Federal money. In accordance with the Stevens Amendment,each publication, press release, or
other document about research supported by an NIH grant must include both:
 1) An acknowledgment of NIH grant support clearly stating the percentage and dollar amount of
the total costs of the program or project funded with federal money, and the percentage and dollar amount of the total costs of the project or program funded by non-governmental sources. For
example:
“Research reported in this [publication, release] was supported by [name of the Institute, Center,
or other funding component] of the National Institutes of Health under grant number [specific
NIH grant number in this format: R01GM012345]." A total of $[amount], or [percentage] percent of [research/project/program] [is/was] financed with federal funds. A total of $[amount], or
[percentage] percent of [research/project/program] [is/was] financed with non-governmental
funds (if applicable)", and
 2) A disclaimer that says:
(GPS page IIA-126)

“The content is solely the responsibility of the authors and does not necessarily represent the official views of the National Institutes of Health.”
If the recipient plans to issue a press release about research supported by an NIH grant, it should notify
the NIH funding component in advance to allow for coordination. See Media Inquiries for media contact
information.
Publications resulting from work performed under an NIH grant-supported project must be included as
part of the annual or final progress report submitted to the NIH awarding IC (see Administrative Requirements—Monitoring—Reporting—Non-Competing Continuation Progress Reports and Administrative
Requirements—Closeout—Final Reports—Final Progress Report). When publications are available electronically, the URL or the PMCID number must be provided. If not available electronically, one copy of
the publication may be provided along with the progress report. See also NIH Public Access Policy
below for additional requirements for publications resulting from NIH funded research.
8.2.2 NIH Public Access Policy
The 2024 NIH Public Access Policy implements Division F, Section 217 of PL 111-8 (Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009). The policy ensures that the public has access to the published results of NIH funded
research at the NIH NLM PMC, a free digital archive of full-text biomedical and life sciences journal literature. Under the Policy NIH-funded investigators are required  to submit (or have submitted for them)
to PMC an electronic version of the final, peer-reviewed manuscript upon acceptance for publication, to
be made publicly available without embargo upon the Official Date of Publication, as defined in the
Policy. The Author Accepted Manuscript is defined as the author's final version that has been accepted
for journal publication, and includes all revisions resulting from the  peer review process, including  all
associated tables, graphics and supplemental material. This policy applies to any Author Accepted
Manuscript accepted for publication in a journal, on or after July 1, 2025, that is the result of funding by
NIH in whole or in part, through grants and cooperative agreements (including training grants), contracts, Other Transactions, NIH intramural research, and the official work of an NIH employee.
Institutions and investigators are responsible for ensuring compliance with this Policy. Applicants citing
articles in NIH applications, proposals, and progress reports that fall under the Policy, were authored or
co-authored by the applicant and result from NIH support must include the PMCID or NIHMS ID.
More details may be found at: https://grants.nih.gov/faqs#/public-access-policy and https://-
grants.nih.gov/policy-and-compliance/policy-topics/public-access.
8.2.3 Sharing Research Resources
Investigators conducting biomedical research frequently develop unique research resources. NIH considers the sharing of such unique research resources (also called research tools) an important means to
enhance the value of NIH-sponsored research. Restricting the availability of unique resources can
impede the advancement of further research. Therefore, when these resources are developed with NIH
funds and the associated research findings have been accepted for publication, or after they have been
provided to NIH, it is important that they be made readily available for research purposes to qualified
individuals within the scientific community. At the same time NIH recognizes the rights of recipients
and contractors to elect and retain title to subject inventions developed with federal funding pursuant to
the Bayh-Dole Act. See the Office of Extramural Research, Division of Extramural Inventions & Technology Resources (DEITR), Intellectual Property Policy page.
(GPS page IIA-127)

Program staff are responsible for overseeing resource sharing policies and for assessing the appropriateness and adequacy of any proposed resource sharing plans.
NIH has published a set of principles and guidelines known as the NIH Research Tools Policy for funding recipients and the biomedical community. These serve as a reference for identifying an appropriate
strategy for disseminating and sharing research tools. The NIH Research Tools Policy webpage explains
these principles and guidelines in more detail and provides suggestions on implementation.
For recipients working with biological materials, NIH has a policy for allowing NIH funding recipients
to retain and license biological materials for which patent protection might not be pursued. To learn
more, read "NIH Procedures for Handling Non-election of Title to Patentable Biological Materials".
The terms of those agreements also must reflect the objectives of the Bayh-Dole Act and the Technology
Transfer Commercialization Act of 2000 to ensure that inventions made are used in a manner to promote
free competition and enterprise without unduly encumbering future research and discovery.
In addition to sharing research resources with the research community, upon request of the NIH awarding IC, the recipient also must provide a copy of documents or a sample of any material developed under
an NIH grant award. The recipient may charge a nominal fee to cover shipping costs for providing this
material. Income earned from these charges must be treated as program income (see Administrative
Requirements—Management Systems and Procedures—Program Income).
To facilitate the availability of unique or novel materials and resources developed with NIH funds, investigators may distribute the materials through their own laboratory or organization or submit them, if
appropriate, to entities such as the American Type Culture Collection or other repositories and should
ensure that those entities distribute them in a way that is consistent with the above referenced NIH
Research Tools Policy webpage. Investigators are expected to submit unique biological information,
such as DNA sequences or crystallographic coordinates, to the appropriate data banks so that they can be
made available to the broad scientific community. When distributing unique resources, investigators are
to include pertinent information on the nature, quality, or characterization of the materials.
8.2.3.1 Operational and Security Standards for Controlled-Access Repositories
The Required Security and Operational Standards for NIH Controlled-Access Data Repositories apply to
grants and cooperative agreements, for the purposes of the NIH GPS, and other funding mechanisms not
covered by the NIH GPS (e.g. intramural contracts and Other Transactions), regardless of the activity
code, that support NIH controlled-access data repositories and access management systems (hereafter
NIH CADRs) that meet all the following criteria:
 l Are supported by an NIH funding mechanism (e.g. grants and cooperative agreements);
 l Provide long-term storage for, or provide access to, data for research purposes (hereafter,
"data");
 l Control access to data by prospective review of data access requests or partner with access systems that control access via prospective review of requests; and
 l Use federal employees to conduct reviews and authorize access, or partner with access systems
that use federal employees for those purposes.
NIH will determine which repositories are subject to these requirements and will maintain a public list of
NIH CADRs, which can be found here. NIH will periodically update this list as needed.
Repositories and access management systems that control access to data, but do not meet the criteria of
an NIH CADR as described above, will not be subject to these requirements. Repositories that only facilitate direct sharing between investigator teams, cloud workspaces that only temporarily store data, data
(GPS page IIA-128)

coordinating centers, and similar activities that do not manage data sharing beyond specific programs or
initiatives, will not be considered an NIH CADR.
To meet the requirements, NIH CADRs must follow the NIH Controlled-Access Data Repository Guidebook to Adhere to “Required Security and Operational Standards for NIH Controlled-Access Data Repositories” (NIH CADR Guidebook), including all relevant effective dates listed in the Guidebook.
8.2.3.2 Policy for Data Management and Sharing (DMS Policy)
The NIH Policy for Data Management and Sharing (DMS Policy) applies to all research, funded or conducted in whole or in part by NIH, that results in the generation of scientific data. This includes research
funded or conducted by extramural grants or other funding agreements regardless of NIH funding level
or funding mechanism. The DMS Policy does not apply to research and other activities that do not generate scientific data, including training, infrastructure development, and non-research activities. A list of
NIH activity codes subject to the DMS Policy is available on the NIH website, and the applicability of
the DMS Policy will be specified in each NIH NOFO.
Applicants must submit a DMS Plan in each competitive grant application, and outline DMS costs in the
appropriate cost categories in the budget (see NIH Application Guide for detailed instructions). DMS
Plans should explain how scientific data generated by research projects will be managed and which of
these scientific data and accompanying metadata will be shared. If DMS Plan revisions are necessary
(e.g., new scientific direction, a different data repository, or a timeline revision), DMS Plans should be
updated by researchers and reviewed by the NIH ICO during regular reporting intervals or sooner. DMS
Plans from NIH-funded or conducted research may be made publicly available and should not include
proprietary or private information. Costs associated with data management and data sharing are subject
to Federal cost principles for the reimbursement of actual costs that are allowable, allocable, reasonable,
and consistently treated as described in NIHGPS Section 7.2 The Cost Principles.
Under the NIH DMS Policy, NIH expects researchers will maximize the appropriate sharing of scientific
data, acknowledging certain factors (i.e., legal, ethical, or technical) that may limit data sharing to some
extent. Per the supplemental information “Elements of an NIH Data Management Sharing Plan,” a compelling rationale for limiting scientific data sharing should be provided and will be assessed by NIH.
Shared scientific data must be made accessible as soon as possible, and no later than the time of an associated publication, or the end of performance period, whichever comes first.
Consistent with 2 CFR 200.403 and the NIHGPS Section 7.4, budget requests must not include infrastructure costs that are included in institutional overhead (e.g., indirect costs) or costs associated with the
routine conduct of research. Costs associated with collecting or otherwise gaining access to research data
(e.g., data access fees) are considered costs of doing research and should not be included in scientific
data management and sharing budgets. Costs may not be double charged or inconsistently charged as
both direct and indirect costs.
Applicants may request data management and sharing costs that are allowable and reasonable when associated with (1) Curating data and developing supporting documentation, including formatting data according to accepted community standards; de-identifying data; preparing metadata to foster discoverability,
interpretation, and reuse; and formatting data for transmission to and storage at a selected repository for
long-term preservation and access. (2) Local data management considerations, such as unique and specialized information infrastructure necessary to provide local management and preservation (e.g., before
deposit into an established repository). (3) Preserving and sharing data through established repositories,
such as data deposit fees necessary for making data available and accessible. For example, if a DMS
Plan proposes preserving and sharing scientific data for 10 years in an established repository with a
deposition fee, the cost for the entire 10-year period must be paid prior to the end of the period of
(GPS page IIA-129)

performance. If the DMS Plan proposes deposition to multiple repositories, costs associated with each
proposed repository may be included.
Generally, DMS Plans are not considered during peer review, unless the NOFO identifies data sharing as
integral to the project. DMS Plans will undergo programmatic assessment by NIH staff following peer
review. ICs may request additional information at Just-in-Time in order to meet expectations for data
management and data sharing in support of programmatic priorities or to expand the utility of the scientific data generated from the research.
Once approved, the DMS Plan will become a Term and Condition of the NOA, and failure to comply
may result in an enforcement action, including additional special terms and conditions or termination of
the award, and may affect future funding decisions. In accordance with NIHGPS Section 8.1.1 NIH
Standard Terms of Award, recipients must obtain prior approval to make changes to the previously
approved DMS Plan (e.g. change in scientific direction, change in repository, or change in the timeline).
All prior approval requests must be submitted in the eRA Prior Approval Module (see NIH Application
Guide).
All allowable Data Management and Sharing costs in budget requests must be incurred (e.g., curation
fees, data repository fees) during the performance period, even for scientific data and metadata preserved
and shared beyond the award period.
Recipients are required to provide updates on the activities described in the DMS plan as part of the
annual RPPR, and the IC will use this information to assess compliance with the previously approved
DMS Plan.
For additional information and resources, see the grants policy website on the Data Management and
Sharing Policy.
8.2.3.3 Genomic Data Sharing (GDS) Policy
The NIH Genomic Data Sharing (GDS) Policy applies to all NIH-funded research that generates largescale human or non-human genomic data, as well as the use of these data for subsequent research. For
the purposes of the GDS Policy, the genome is the entire set of genetic instructions found in a cell and
large-scale genomic data include genome-wide association studies (GWAS), single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) arrays, and genome sequence, transcriptomic, metagenomic, epigenomic, and gene
expression data. The grants policy website on Genomic Data Sharing Policy Overview provides
examples of genomic research projects that are subject to the Policy and the timeline for submission and
sharing of data from such projects.
All applications, regardless of the amount requested, proposing research that will  generate large-scale
genomic data, are expected to describe plans for sharing genomic data in the Data Management and Sharing (DMS) Plan submitted with the application as described in 8.2.3.2 Policy for Data Management and
Sharing. For guidance on developing a DMS plan that meets the requirements of the DMS and GDS
policies, refer to the grants policy website on Writing a Data Management & Sharing Plan. Once
approved, the DMS Plan will become a Term and Condition of the NOA and compliance and enforcement will be handled as described in 8.2.3.2 Policy for Data Management and Sharing.
PD / PIs should register all studies with human genomic data that fall within the scope of the GDS
Policy in the NIH database of Genotypes and Phenotypes (dbGaP) by the time that data cleaning and
quality control measures begin. After registration in dbGaP, PD / PIs, through the recipient institution,
should submit large-scale human genomic data as well as relevant associated data (e.g., phenotype and
exposure data) to an NIH-designated data repository in a timely manner, consistent with their NIH-
(GPS page IIA-130)

approved DMS Plan.  PD / PIs should also submit any information necessary to interpret the submitted
genomic data, such as study protocols, data instruments, and survey tools.
For research that falls within the scope of the GDS Policy, institutions submitting data, through their
Institutional Review Boards (IRBs), privacy boards, or equivalent bodies, are to review the informed consent materials to determine whether it is appropriate for data to be shared for secondary research use. For
studies proposing to use genomic data from cell lines or clinical specimens that were created or collected
after the effective date of the GDS Policy, NIH expects that informed consent for future research use and
sharing will have been obtained even if the cell lines or clinical specimens are de-identified. The responsible Institutional Signing Official of the submitting institution must provide an Institutional Certification
to the funding IC prior to award. For guidance on completing an Institutional Certification under the
GDS Policy, see the NIH Scientific Data Sharing website and section 2.3.7.10.
If there are compelling scientific reasons that necessitate the use of genomic data from cell lines or clinical specimens that were created or collected after the effective date of this Policy and that lack consent
for research use and data sharing, investigators should provide a justification in the funding request for
their use. The funding IC will review the justification and decide whether to make an exception to the
consent expectation. In some instances, the funding IC may need to determine whether to grant an exception to the data submission expectation under the GDS Policy. Studies provided exceptions to data submission under the GDS Policy will still be expected to be registered in the NIH Database of Genotypes
and Phenotypes (dbGaP) for transparency.
Investigators approved to access data and their institution are responsible for maintaining the confidentiality, integrity, and security of data accessed from a NIH-designated repository in accordance with
the NIH Security Best Practices for Users of Controlled-Access Data included in Data Use Certifications
(DUCs), or similar data use agreements, stipulating terms of access and the requirements of the Genomic
Data User Code of Conduct. Violating these terms and requirements is considered a data management
incident.
If an investigator plans to use a Cloud  Service Provider (CSP) and/or a third-party IT system to store and
analyze controlled-access data, NIH expects the CSP and/or third party IT system to meet the same standards as outlined in the NIH Security Best Practices for Users of Controlled-Access Data.
The institution, not the CSP and/or third-party IT system, will be held responsible for any failure in the
oversight of controlled-access data.
NIH requires Lead Developers, and those they directly supervise, who seek access to controlled-access
human genomic data under the GDS Policy for developer work (e.g., testing platforms, pipelines, analysis tools, and user interfaces that store, manage, and interact with human genomic data; providing infrastructure development and repository maintenance), to submit a request containing a Developer Use
Statement (DUS) to the NIH Developer Data Access Committee (DeveloperAccessDAC@od.nih.gov) no
later than at Just-in-Time (JIT) for grants and cooperative agreements. If a project has multiple Lead
Developers, (e.g., for multicomponent awards), each Lead Developer must submit a DUS. All Lead
Developers must be associated with an institution that is receiving or applying for NIH or other federal
support for the developer work with a funding mechanism that has incorporated the developer terms of
access.  Once established, Lead Developers must follow the Developer Terms of Access.
Additional information about the GDS Policy can be found on NIH’s "Genomic Data Sharing Policy"
webpage.
(GPS page IIA-131)

8.2.3.4 Sharing Model Organisms
All applications, regardless of amount requested, where the development of model organisms is anticipated are expected to include a description of a specific plan for sharing and distributing unique model
organism research resources generated using NIH funding so that other researchers can benefit from
these resources, or state appropriate reasons why such sharing is restricted or not possible.
Model organisms include but are not restricted to mammalian models, such as the mouse and rat; and
non-mammalian models, such as budding yeast, social amoebae, round worm, Arabidopsis, fruit fly,
zebrafish, and frog. Research resources to be shared include, but are not limited to, genetically modified
organisms, mutant organisms, sperm, embryos, vectors, non-human embryonic stem cells, established
cell lines, protocols for genetic and phenotypic screens, mutagenesis protocols, genetic and phenotypic
data for all mutant strains.
For additional information on this policy, see the NIH Scientific Data Sharing Model Organism Sharing
Policy website.
8.2.4 Inventions and Patents
The Bayh-Dole Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-517; 35 U.S.C. 200-212; Executive Order 12591; 37 C.F.R.
401 et al; updated April 14, 2018.) provides NIH funding recipients incentives to promote the utilization
of inventions conceived or reduced to practice (Subject Invention) in the performance of federally supported research and development.  Unless waived by NIH or the funding agreement is for educational purposes, e.g. fellowships, training grants or certain types of career development awards, the Bayh-Dole Act
applies to all NIH research and development funding granted to for-profit organizations regardless of
size and all non-profit entities.  (See 2 CFR Part 200 and 37 CFR Part 401.1(b)).
To retain rights and title to Subject Inventions, the NIH funding recipient must comply with the Bayh-
Dole statute and implementing regulations that ensure the Invention will be brought to practical application while protecting certain rights of the Federal government.  The compliance actions required by the
Bayh-Dole Act are summarized below at Exhibit 8.
 Failure of the recipient to comply with any of the Bayh-Dole regulations cited at 37 CFR Part 401 or
other requirements may result in the loss of patent rights or the suspension, termination or withholding of
NIH funding support.  See also Section 8.5.2 for additional remedies for noncompliance of the Bayh-Dole
Act.
 All Bayh-Dole compliance actions are required to be submitted to NIH by using the iEdison data base
(See 37 CFR Part 401.16). All issues or questions regarding extramural technology transfer policy and
reporting of inventions and their utilization should be referred to  OPERA/OER at edison@nih.gov.
(GPS page IIA-132)

Exhibit 8. Extramural Invention Reporting Compliance Responsibilities
(GPS page IIA-133)

Invention
Compliance
Reporting
Requirement
Action Required
When Compliance Action
Must Be Taken.
(All Compliance Actions are to
be Submitted to NIH through
iEdison)
37 CFR Part 401
Reference
Employee
Agreement to
Disclose All
Subject
Inventions
Recipient employees working
under a federal funding award
(other than clerical and
nontechnical employees) must
sign an agreement with the
recipient organization. This
agreement requires the Recipient
employee to: (1) disclose promptly
in writing to personnel identified as
responsible for the administration
of patent matters each Subject
Invention made under
NIH funding; (2) assign to the
Recipient the entire right, title and
interest in and to each Subject
Invention made under the funding
agreement; (3) execute all papers
necessary to file patent
applications on Subject
Inventions; and, (4) establish the
government's right in the Subject
Inventions.
Before a Recipient or a
consortium employee
participates in NIH-funded
research and development.
401.14(f)(2)
Consortium
Participant Rights
in Inventions
All consortium participants,
regardless of tier, for
experimental, developmental or
research work retain all rights and
obligations provided to the
Consortium Participant in the
NIH funding agreement.
At the time of issuance of a
consortium agreement,
recipient must include in all
consortium agreements,
regardless of tier, for
experimental,
development, or research
work 37 CFR Part 401 et
seq suitably modified to
identify the parties and the
rights and obligations
awarded to the contractor.
401.14(g)(1)
401.14(g)(2)
401.14(g)(3)
(GPS page IIA-134)

Invention
Compliance
Reporting
Requirement
Action Required
When Compliance Action
Must Be Taken.
(All Compliance Actions are to
be Submitted to NIH through
iEdison)
37 CFR Part 401
Reference
Invention
Disclosure
The term "Subject
Invention" means any invention
of a recipient/consortium
participant conceived or first
actually reduced to practice in the
performance of work under a
funding agreement.
The recipient must submit to NIH a
disclosure for all Subject
Inventions. There is no single
format for disclosing the invention
to NIH. However, the disclosure of
the Subject Invention must
include: a detailed technical
description of the invention
conveying a clear understanding
of the nature, purpose, operation,
and the physical, chemical,
biological, or electrical
characteristics of the Subject
Invention; the names of all
inventors; title of the Subject
Invention; all federal funding
agreement numbers; date of
disclosure of the Subject Invention
from the researcher or inventor to
the Recipient; and whether a
manuscript describing the
invention was submitted,
accepted and/or published.
Within 2 months of the
inventor’s disclosure to the
recipient organization.
401.14(a)(2)
401.14(c)(1)
Government
Assignment to
Recipient of
Rights in
Invention of
Government
Employee
Disclosure to NIH that a federal
employee is a co-inventor on a
Subject Invention.
Within 2 months of receipt
of the initial invention
report.
401.14(f)(2)
401.10
(GPS page IIA-135)

Invention
Compliance
Reporting
Requirement
Action Required
When Compliance Action
Must Be Taken.
(All Compliance Actions are to
be Submitted to NIH through
iEdison)
37 CFR Part 401
Reference
Acceptance of
Manuscript
following
Submission of
Initial Invention
Disclosure
The recipient needs to promptly
notify NIH of the acceptance of
any manuscript describing the
Subject Invention.
Promptly following the
acceptance of a
manuscript describing a
Subject Invention.
401.14(c)(1)
Election of Title to
a Subject
Invention
The recipient must notify NIH of its
decision to retain title to a Subject
Invention and any associated
patent rights.
Election of title is made before the
filing of an Initial Patent
Application.
Statutory Period is defined as
the one-year period before the
effective filing date of a claimed
invention during which exceptions
to prior art exist per 35 U.S.C. 102
(b) as amended by the Leah-
Smith American Inventions Act,
Public Law 112-29.
Within 2 years of the
disclosure of the invention
to NIH.
In any case where a patent,
a printed publication, public
use, sale or other
availability to the public has
initiated the one-year
Statutory Period wherein
valid patent protection can
still be obtained in the
United States, the period
for election of title is
shortened by NIH to a date
that is no more than 60
days prior to the end of the
statutory period.
401.14(b)
401.14(c)(2)
401.2(n)
Confirmatory
License
For each Subject Invention, the
recipient must provide a license to
NIH confirming the rights the
Government has throughout the
world in the Subject Invention.
When a confirmatory license is
filed on the Initial Patent
Application the license applies to
all subsequent patent applications
linked in the patent family.
When the Initial Patent
Application is filed.
401.14(f)(1)
(GPS page IIA-136)

Invention
Compliance
Reporting
Requirement
Action Required
When Compliance Action
Must Be Taken.
(All Compliance Actions are to
be Submitted to NIH through
iEdison)
37 CFR Part 401
Reference
Government
Support Clause
The recipient must include, within
the specification of all United
States patent applications and any
patent issuing thereon covering a
Subject Invention, the following
statement, "This invention was
made with government support
under (grant number, including the
two-letter institute code and sixdigit serial number, e.g.,
CA012345) awarded by the
National Institutes of Health. The
government has certain rights in
the invention."
Must be included within the
specifications of any United
States patent applications
and any patent(s) issuing
thereon covering a Subject
Invention.
401.14(f)(4)
Patent
Applications and
Issued Patents
The recipient must inform NIH of
the filing date of its Initial Patent
Application, the Initial Patent
Application number and title and
all subsequently filed patent
applications.
Initial Patent Application is
defined as the first provisional or
nonprovisional U.S. national
application for patent as defined in
37 CFR Part 1.9(a)(2) and (3),
respectively, the first international
application filed under the Patent
Cooperation Treaty as defined in
37 CFR Part 1.9(b) that
designates the United States, or
the first application for a Plan
Variety Protection certificate, as
applicable,  a non-provisional U.S.
national application for patent as
defined in 37 CFR Part 1.9(a)(3).
Within 1 year after election
of title, or, if earlier, prior to
the end of any Statutory
Period wherein valid patent
protection can be obtained
in the United States after a
publication, on sale, or
public use, unless there is
an extension of time
granted by NIH.
401.14(c)(3)
401.14.(f)(6)
401.2(n)
(GPS page IIA-137)

Invention
Compliance
Reporting
Requirement
Action Required
When Compliance Action
Must Be Taken.
(All Compliance Actions are to
be Submitted to NIH through
iEdison)
37 CFR Part 401
Reference
Notification to NIH
to Not to Continue
Prosecution
Notify NIH of any decision to: not
to continue the prosecution of a
non-provisional patent application;
not to pay a maintenance, annuity
or renewal fee; not to defend in a
reexamination or opposition
proceeding on a patent, in any
country; to request, be a part to, or
take action in a trial proceeding
before the Patent Trial and
Appeals Board of the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office including
but not limited to post-grant
review, review of a business
method patent, inter partes
review, and deviation proceeding;
or to request, be a part to, or take
action in a non-trial submission of
art or information at the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office,
including but not limited to a preissuance submission, a postissuance submission, and
supplemental examination.
Notify NIH no less than 60
days prior to taking any
action defined under
"Action Required."
401.14(f)(3)
Assignment of
Rights to Third
Party
If the recipient is a non-profit
organization, it must request
NIH prior approval to assign a
Subject Invention or U.S. patent
rights to any third party, including
the inventor(s).
Recipients that are for-profit
entities (including small
businesses) do not need to
request approval for the
assignment of a Subject Invention
or U.S. patent rights to any third
party.
Recipient must submit a
Third-Party Waiver
Request or an Inventor
Waiver Request and must
have NIH approval before
any rights of the recipient
are transferred or
assigned.
401.10
401.14(k)(1)
(GPS page IIA-138)

Invention
Compliance
Reporting
Requirement
Action Required
When Compliance Action
Must Be Taken.
(All Compliance Actions are to
be Submitted to NIH through
iEdison)
37 CFR Part 401
Reference
Preference for
United States
Industry
Recipient cannot grant to any
person, unless approved by NIH in
advance, the exclusive right to use
or sell any Subject Invention in the
United States unless any such
product embodying the Subject
Invention or produced through the
use of the Subject Invention is
manufactured substantially in the
United States.
For a waiver of this
compliance requirement, a
request is required to NIH
providing specific details
and reasons why the
Subject Invention cannot
be substantially
manufactured in the United
States.
401.14(i)
Issued Patent
Recipient must notify NIH of the
date a patent is issued, patent
number, and the expiration date of
the issued patent.
When patent is issued.
401.5(f)(2)
Extension of Time
to Disclose a
Subject Invention
The recipient may request for
NIH's approval for an extension of
time to disclose a Subject
Invention.
Not less than 30 days in
advance of the 60-day
disclosure reporting
deadline.
401.14(c)(5)
Extension of Time
to Elect Title to a
Subject Invention
Recipient may request with
justification, NIH's approval of a
request for an extension of up to 2
years to elect title to a Subject
Invention.
As needed before the
expiration of the time
allowed.
401.14(c)(5)
Extension of Time
to File a Patent
Application
The recipient may request, subject
to NIH's approval, an extension
time up to 1 year to file a patent
application.
The request must include details
of why an extension is needed.
As needed before the
expiration of the time
allowed.
401.14(c)(5)
(GPS page IIA-139)

Invention
Compliance
Reporting
Requirement
Action Required
When Compliance Action
Must Be Taken.
(All Compliance Actions are to
be Submitted to NIH through
iEdison)
37 CFR Part 401
Reference
Extension of Time
to File a Nonprovisional Patent
Application
following the
Filing of a
Provisional
Application as the
Initial Patent
Application
When a recipient requests an
extension of time for filing a nonprovisional application, after filing
a provisional application as an
Initial Patent Application, a 1-
year extension will be granted
unless NIH notifies the recipient
within 60 days of receiving the
request.
Recipient must submit this request
citing an extension of time
pursuant to 401.14(c)(5). No
additional details for the request
are required.
As needed before the
expiration of the time
allowed.
401.14(c)(5)
Invention
Utilization Report
The recipient must submit an
annual utilization report with
information about the status of
commercialization of any Subject
Invention for which title has been
elected.
Annually, based on the
fiscal year of the recipient.
401.14(h)
Annual Invention
Statement
The recipient must indicate any
inventions made during the
previous budget period in Section
C of the Research Performance
Progress Report (RPPR).
Part of all competing
applications and noncompeting continuation
progress reports.
SF424, (R&R)
PHS 2590,
RPPR
Final Invention
Statement and
Certification
The recipient must submit to the
NIH awarding IC CGMO through
the eRA Closeout Module a
summary of all inventions made
during the entire term of each
grant award.
Within 120 days after the
project period (competitive
segment) ends.
401.14(f)(5)
8.2.5 Interim Research Products
Interim Research Products are complete, public research products that are not final.  A common form is
the preprint, which is a complete and public draft of a scientific document. Interim research products are
effective ways for NIH funded scientists to speed dissemination, establish priority, obtain feedback, and
reduce bias. They may also be cited in applications for NIH funding.
NIH intends to maximize impact of interim research products that are developed with NIH funds.  Therefore, NIH expects recipients to ensure a high level of public access to NIH supported interim products.
(GPS page IIA-140)

To facilitate text mining and other analysis of these products as data,  NIH expects standardized terms of
use. NIH also expects recipients will adhere to other norms of responsible scientific communication.
Specifically, to claim an interim research product as a product of an NIH award, NIH expects that the
recipient will:
 l Make the product publicly available. To maximize the impact of an interim research product,
NIH strongly encourages recipients to select a Creative Commons Attribution (CC-BY) license
or dedicate their work to the public domain.
 l In the text of the document:
 o Acknowledge NIH funding in accordance with NIH GPS Section 8.2.1
 o Clearly state that the work is not peer-reviewed
 o Declare any competing interests, as an author would do for any journal article
8.3 MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS AND PROCEDURES
Recipient organizations are expected to have systems, policies, and procedures in place by which they
manage funds and activities. Recipients may use their existing systems to manage NIH grant funds and
activities as long as they are consistently applied regardless of the source of funds and meet the standards and requirements set forth in 2 CFR Part 200 and the NIHGPS. NIH may review the adequacy of
those systems and may take appropriate action, as necessary, to protect the Federal government’s
interests, including, but not limited to, the use of specific terms and conditions. NIH also will oversee the
recipient’s systems as part of its routine post-award monitoring. The recipient’s systems also are subject
to audit (see Administrative Requirements—Monitoring—Audit).
NIH seeks to foster within recipient organizations an organizational culture that is committed to compliance, leading to both exemplary research and exemplary supporting systems and use of resources to
underpin that research. Actions to achieve this result should include a clear delineation of the roles and
responsibilities of the organization’s staff, both programmatic and administrative; written policies and
procedures; training; performance assessment; administrative simplifications; information sharing; management controls and other internal controls.
Recipient organizations must establish and maintain effective internal controls to provide reasonable
assurance that they are in compliance with Federal statutes, regulations, and terms and conditions of
award (2 CFR 200.303(a) and (b)). They must evaluate and monitor their compliance with statutes, regulations, and terms and conditions (2 CFR 200.303(c)), and they must take prompt action when instances
of noncompliance are identified (2 CFR 200.303(d)).
Recipient organizations’ internal controls should be in compliance with guidance in “Standards for Control in the Federal Government.” (2 CFR 200.303(a)). Thus, recipient organizations are expected to establish codes of conduct which define expectations of integrity and ethical values and criteria of
competence of personnel involved in the work supported by NIH grant funds. Codes of conduct should
articulate expectations to assure compliance with terms and conditions of award, including but not limited to, providing true, complete, and accurate information on application documents (2.3.7.6); assuring
work environments are free of discriminatory harassment and are safe and conducive to high-quality
work (4); and meeting applicable public policy requirements (4.1).
8.3.1 Financial Management System Standards
Recipients are required to meet the standards and requirements for financial management systems set
forth or referenced in 2 CFR Part 200.302 as applicable. The standards and requirements for a financial
(GPS page IIA-141)

management system are essential to the grant relationship. NIH cannot support the research unless it has
assurance that its funds will be used appropriately, adequate documentation of transactions will be maintained, and assets will be safeguarded.
Recipients must have in place accounting and internal control systems that provide for appropriate monitoring of grant accounts to ensure that obligations and expenditures are reasonable, allocable, and allowable. In addition, the systems must be able to identify large unobligated balances, accelerated
expenditures, inappropriate cost transfers, and other inappropriate obligation and expenditure of funds.
Recipients must notify NIH when problems are identified.
A recipient’s failure to establish adequate control systems constitutes a material violation of the terms of
the award. Under these circumstances, NIH may include specific conditions on awards or take any of the
range of actions specified in Administrative Requirements—Enforcement Actions, as necessary and
appropriate.
8.3.2 Program Income
Program income is gross income—earned by a recipient, a consortium participant, or a contractor under
a grant—that was directly generated by the grant-supported activity or earned as a result of the award.
Program income includes, but is not limited to, income from fees for services performed; charges for the
use or rental of real property, equipment or supplies acquired under the grant; the sale of commodities or
items fabricated under an award; charges for research resources; registration fees for grant-supported conferences, and license fees and royalties on patents and copyrights. (Note: Program income from license
fees and royalties from copyrighted material, patents, and inventions is exempt from reporting requirements unless otherwise specified in the terms and conditions of award.) The requirements for accountability for these various types of income under NIH grants are specified in this subsection.
Accountability refers to whether NIH will specify how the income is to be used and whether the income
needs to be reported to NIH and for what length of time. Unless otherwise specified in the terms and conditions of the award, NIH recipients are not accountable for program income accrued after the period of
grant support.
NIH applies the additive alternative to all recipients, including for-profit entities, unless there is a concern with the recipient or activity and NIH uses specific terms and conditions, or the program requires a
different program income alternative. NIH may require a different use of program income if a recipient
has deficient systems; if the PD/PI has a history of frequent, large annual unobligated balances on previous grants; or if the PD/PI has requested multiple extensions of the final budget period of the project
period. Regardless of the alternative applied, program income may be used only for allowable costs in
accordance with the applicable cost principles and the terms and conditions of the award. Each NoA will
indicate the allowable treatment of program income. Program income alternatives and their usage are
noted below in Exhibit 9.
Consortium agreements and contracts under grants are subject to the terms of the agreement or contract
with regard to the income generated by the activities, but the terms specified by the recipient must be
consistent with the requirements of the grant award. Program income must be reported by the recipient
as discussed in this subsection.
8.3.2.1 Reporting Program Income
The amount of program income earned and the amount expended must be reported on the appropriate
annual financial report, currently the FFR. Any costs associated with the generation of the gross amount
of program income that are not charged to the grant should be deducted from the gross program income
earned, and the net program income should be the amount reported. Program income must be reported in
the Program Income section of the FFR (lines 10 L – O). (See Administrative Requirements—
(GPS page IIA-142)

Monitoring—Reporting—Financial Reporting.) For awards under SNAP, the amount of program income
earned must be reported in the non-competing continuation progress report.
Income resulting from royalties or licensing fees is generally exempt from reporting as program income.
When applicable, income earned from the sale of equipment must be reported on the FFR for the period
in which the proceeds are received in accordance with the reporting requirements for the program
income alternative specified. Amounts due NIH for unused supplies must be reflected as a credit to the
grant on the FFR using line 10 m.
Reporting requirements for accountable income accrued after grant support ends will be specified in the
NoA.
Exhibit 9. Use and Applicability of Program Income Alternatives
Program income
alternative
Use of program income
Applicability
Additive Alternative
Added to funds committed to the project or
program and used to further eligible
project or program objectives.
Applies to all NIH awards unless
there is a concern with the recipient
or activity or the program requires a
different alternative.
Deductive Alternative
Deducted from total allowable costs of the
project or program to determine the net
allowable costs on which the Federal
share of costs will be based.
Available for use by NIH programs
on an exception basis.
Combination
Alternative
Uses all program income up to (and
including) $25,000 as specified under the
additive alternative and any amount of
program income exceeding $25,000 under
the deductive  alternative.
Available for use by NIH programs
on an exception basis.
Matching Alternative
Used to satisfy all or part of the non-
Federal share of a project or program.
Available for use by NIH programs
that require matching.
8.3.2.2 Sale of Real Property, Equipment, and Supplies
The requirements that apply to the sale of real property are addressed in the Construction Grants chapter.
For equipment and supplies purchased under NIH grants for basic or applied research by non-profit institutions of higher education or non-profit organizations whose principal purpose is the conduct of scientific research, the recipient is exempt from any requirement to account to NIH for proceeds from the
sale of the equipment or supplies; however, NIH has certain rights with respect to such property as specified in Administrative Requirements—Management Systems and Procedures—Property Management
System Standards.
All other types of grants and recipients are subject to the requirements specified in 2 CFR Part 200.313  if
title to the equipment vests in the recipient rather than in NIH. If the grant-supported project or program
for which equipment was acquired is still receiving NIH funding at the time of sale, the recipient must
credit the NIH share of the proceeds to the grant and use that amount under the deductive alternative for
program income. If the recipient is no longer receiving NIH grant support, the amount due should be
paid in accordance with instructions from NIH. These grants and recipients also are subject to the
(GPS page IIA-143)

requirements in 2 CFR Part 200.314 with respect to the use or sale of unused supplies. If the recipient
retains the supplies for use on other than federally sponsored activities, an amount is due NIH as if they
were sold.
8.3.2.3 Royalties and Licensing Fees from Copyrights, Inventions, and Patents
NIH recipients do not have to report program income resulting from royalties or licensing fees from sale
of copyrighted material unless specific terms and conditions of the award provide otherwise. The NoA
may include specific terms and conditions if commercialization of an invention is an anticipated outcome
of a research project.
However, the regulations implementing the Bayh-Dole Act (37 CFR Part 401.14(h)) require reporting of
income resulting from NIH-funded inventions and patents. Specifically, as part of the annual invention
utilization report, recipients must report income generated by all subject inventions to which title has
been elected and by inventions such as research tools that have been licensed but not patented (see
Administrative Requirements—Availability of Research Results: Publications, Intellectual Property
Rights, and Sharing Research Resources and Administrative Requirements—Monitoring—Reporting).
8.3.3 Property Management System Standards
Generally, recipients may use their own property management policies and procedures for property purchased, constructed, or fabricated as a direct cost using NIH grant funds, provided they observe the regulatory requirements in 2 CFR Parts 200.310 through 200.316, as applicable, and the following. State
governments will use, manage, and dispose of equipment acquired under a grant in accordance with state
laws and procedures as specified in 45 CFR Part 92.32.
The dollar threshold for determining the applicability of several of the requirements in those regulations
is based on the unit acquisition cost of an item of equipment. As defined in 2 CFR Part 200.1 , the
acquisition cost of an item of equipment to the recipient includes necessary modifications and attachments that make it usable for the purpose for which it was acquired or fabricated. When such accessories
or attachments are acquired separately and serve to replace, enhance, supplement, or otherwise modify
the equipment’s capacity and they individually meet the definition of equipment (see Glossary in Part I),
any required NIH prior approval for equipment must be observed for each item. However, the aggregate
acquisition cost of an operating piece of equipment will be used to determine the applicable provisions
of 2 CFR Part 200.313. If property is fabricated from individual component parts, each component must
itself be classified as equipment if it meets the definition of equipment. In this case, the aggregate acquisition cost of the resulting piece of equipment will determine the appropriate accountability requirements
in 2 CFR Part 200.313 .
Recipients are required to be prudent in the acquisition of property under a grant-supported project. It is
the recipient’s responsibility to conduct a prior review of each proposed property acquisition to ensure
that the property is needed and that the need cannot be met with property already in the possession of the
organization. If prior approval is required for the acquisition, the recipient must ensure that appropriate
approval is obtained in advance of the acquisition. The recipient also must follow appropriate procurement procedures in acquiring property as specified in Administrative Requirements—Management
Systems and Procedures—Procurement System Standards and Requirements.
Recipients of NIH grants other than Federal institutions cannot be authorized to use Federal supply
sources.
(GPS page IIA-144)

8.3.3.1 Real Property
See Construction Grants—Real Property Management Standards in IIB for requirements that apply to the
acquisition, use, and disposition of real property. Fixed equipment that is part of a construction grant is
subject to those requirements.
8.3.3.2 Equipment and Supplies
In general, title to equipment and supplies acquired by a recipient with NIH funds vests in the recipient
upon acquisition, subject to property management requirements of 2 CFR Parts 200.310, 2 CFR Part
200.316. Limited exceptions to these general rules are States, which may use, manage, and dispose of
equipment acquired under a grant in accordance with State laws and procedures, and certain research
grant recipients with exempt property (see 2 CFR Part 200.317). These requirements do not apply to
equipment for which only depreciation or use allowances are charged, donated equipment, or equipment
acquired primarily for sale or rental rather than for use.
8.3.3.2.1 Exempt Property
Under the Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act, 31 U.S.C. 6306, NIH may permit non-profit
institutions of higher education and non-profit organizations whose primary purpose is the conduct of scientific research to obtain title to equipment and supplies acquired under grants for support of basic or
applied scientific research without further obligation to the Federal government. However, there is one
exception: NIH has the right to require transfer of title to equipment with an acquisition cost of $10,000
or more to the Federal government or to an eligible third party named by the NIH awarding IC under the
conditions specified in 2 CFR Part 200.312. NIH may exercise this right within 120 days of the completion or termination of an award or within 120 days of receipt of an inventory, as provided in 2 CFR
Part 200.313, whichever is later.
8.3.3.2.2 Nonexempt Property
All other equipment and supplies acquired under all other NIH grant-supported projects by any other
type of recipient are subject to the full range of acquisition, use, management, and disposition requirements of 2 CFR Part 200.313  and 2 CFR Part 200.314. Property acquired or used under an NIH grantsupported project, including any federally owned property, also is subject to the requirements for internal
control specified in 2 CFR Part 200.303. Equipment (and intangible property and debt instruments)
acquired with, or improved with, NIH funds must not be encumbered without NIH approval.
The recipient’s management system for equipment must meet the following requirements:
 l Records that adequately identify (according to the criteria specified in the regulations) items of
equipment owned or held by the recipient and state the current location of each item.
 l A physical inventory of the equipment, at least once every 2 years, to verify that the items in the
records exist and either are usable and needed or are surplus (a statistical sampling basis is
acceptable).
 l Control procedures and safeguards to prevent property loss, damage, and theft.
 l Regular maintenance procedures to ensure the property is in proper working condition.
 l Proper sales procedures when the recipient is authorized to sell the equipment.
For items of equipment having a unit acquisition cost of $10,000 or more, NIH has the right to require
transfer title to the equipment to the Federal government or to an eligible third party named by the NIH
awarding IC under the conditions specified in 2 CFR Part 200.313. Such transfer shall be subject to the
(GPS page IIA-145)

following standards: (1) The equipment shall be appropriately identified in the award or otherwise made
known to the recipient in writing. (2) The awarding IC may require submission of a final inventory that
lists all equipment acquired with NIH funds and federally-owned equipment. (3) If the awarding IC fails
to issue disposition instructions within 120 calendar days after receipt of the inventory or if so instructed,
the recipient shall sell the equipment and reimburse the NIH an amount calculated by multiplying the percentage of NIH’s contribution towards the original purchase by the current market value or proceeds
from the sale. However, the recipient shall be permitted to  retain from the NIH share $1,000.00 of the
proceeds, to cover expenses associated with the selling and handling of the equipment. If the recipient is
instructed to ship the equipment elsewhere, the recipient shall be reimbursed by the awarding IC an
amount which is computed by applying the percentage of the recipient’s share in the cost of the original
project or program to the current fair market value of the equipment, plus any reasonable shipping or
interim storage costs incurred. If the recipient is instructed to otherwise dispose of the equipment, the
recipient will be reimbursed by the NIH for such costs incurred in its disposition.  If the recipient’s project or program for which or under which the equipment was acquired is still receiving support from the
same NIH program, and if the NIH approves, the net amount due may be used for allowable costs of that
project or program. Otherwise the net amount must be remitted to the NIH by check. This right applies
to nonexempt property acquired by all types of recipients, including Federal institutions, under all types
of grants under the stipulated conditions. When included in the terms and conditions of the award, NIH
may permit the recipient to retain equipment, or authorize a pass-through entity to permit the subrecipient to retain equipment, with no further obligation to the NIH unless prohibited by Federal statute
or regulation.
If there is a residual inventory of unused supplies exceeding $10,000 in aggregate fair market value upon
termination or completion of the grant and if the supplies are not needed for other federally sponsored
programs or projects, the recipient may either retain them for use on other than federally sponsored activities or sell them, but, in either case, the recipient must compensate the NIH awarding IC for its share as
a credit to the grant.
Recipients of NIH grants must not use equipment acquired with grant funds to provide services for a fee
to compete unfairly with private companies that provide equivalent services, unless the terms and conditions of the award provide otherwise.
8.3.3.2.3 Revocable License
As permitted under Federal property management statutes and regulations and NIH property management policies, federally owned tangible personal property may be made available to recipients under
a revocable license agreement. The revocable license agreement between NIH and the recipient provides
for the transfer of the equipment for the period of grant support under the following conditions:
 l Title to the property remains with the Federal government.
 l NIH reserves the right to require the property to be returned to the Federal government should it
be determined to be in the best interests of the Federal government to do so.
 l The use to which the recipient puts the property does not permanently damage it for Federal government use.
 l The property is controlled and maintained in accordance with the requirements of 48 CFR Part
45.5 (the FAR).
(GPS page IIA-146)

8.3.4 Procurement System Standards and Requirements
8.3.4.1 General
Recipients may acquire a variety of goods or services in connection with a grant-supported project, ranging from those that are routinely purchased goods or services to those that involve substantive programmatic work. States may follow the same policies and procedures they use for procurements from
non-Federal funds and ensure that every purchase order or other contract includes any clauses required
by 2 CFR Part 200.327. All other recipients must follow the requirements in 2 CFR Part 200.318
through 200.327 for the purchase of goods or services through contracts under grants.  The requirements
for third-party activities involving programmatic work are addressed under Consortium Agreements
chapter in IIB.
A contract under a grant must be a written agreement between the recipient and the third party. The contract must, as appropriate, state the activities to be performed; the time schedule; the policies and requirements that apply to the contractor,  including those required by 2 CFR Part 200, Appendix II — Contract
Provisions for non-Federal Entity Contracts Under Federal Awards and other terms and conditions of the
grant (these may be incorporated by reference where feasible); the maximum amount of money for
which the recipient may become liable to the third party under the agreement; and the cost principles to
be used in determining allowable costs in the case of cost-type contracts. The contract must not affect the
recipient’s overall responsibility for the direction of the project and accountability to the Federal government. Therefore, the agreement must reserve sufficient rights and control to the recipient to enable it
to fulfill its responsibilities.
When a recipient enters into a service-type contract in which the term is not concurrent with the budget
period of the award, the recipient may charge the costs of the contract to the budget period in which the
contract is executed even though some of the services will be performed in a succeeding period if the following conditions are met:
 l The NIH awarding IC has been made aware of this situation either at the time of application or
through post-award notification.
 l The project has been recommended for a project period extending beyond the current year of support.
 l The recipient has a legal commitment to continue the contract for its full term.
However, costs will be allowable only to the extent that they are for services provided during the period
of NIH support. To limit liability if continued NIH funding is not forthcoming, it is recommended that
recipients insert a clause in such contracts of $100,000 or less stipulating that payment beyond the end of
the current budget period is contingent on continued Federal funding. The contract provisions prescribed
by 2 CFR Part 200, Appendix II — Contract Provisions for recipient and subrecipient Contracts Under
Federal Awards, paragraph B specify termination provisions for contracts in excess of $100,000.
8.3.4.2 Approval Requirements
The procurement standards in 2 CFR Part 200.325 allow NIH to require approval of specific procurement transactions under the following circumstances (and provide a mechanism for governmental
recipients to be exempt from this type of review):
 l A recipient’s procurement procedures or operations do not comply with the procurement standards required by those regulations.
(GPS page IIA-147)

l The procurement is expected to exceed the “simplified acquisition threshold” (currently
$250,000 per OMB memo M-18-18) (formerly the “small purchase threshold”) established by
the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act, as amended, and is to be awarded without
competition or only one bid or proposal is received in response to a solicitation.
 l A procurement that will exceed the simplified acquisition threshold specifies a “brand name”
product.
 l A proposed award over the simplified acquisition threshold is to be awarded to other than the
apparent low bidder under a sealed-bid procurement.
 l A proposed contract modification changes the scope of a contract or increases the contract
amount by more than the amount considered to be a simplified acquisition.
When NIH prior approval is required, the recipient must make available sufficient information to enable
review. This may include, at NIH discretion, presolicitation technical specifications or documents, such
as requests for proposals or invitations for bids, or independent cost estimates. Approval may be deferred
pending submission of additional information by the applicant or recipient or may be conditioned on the
receipt of additional information. Any resulting NIH approval does not constitute a legal endorsement of
the business arrangement by the Federal government nor does such approval establish NIH as a party to
the contract or any of its provisions.
8.3.4.3 Contracting with Small Businesses, Minority-Owned Firms,  Women's Business Enterprises, and Veteran-Owned Businesses
Recipients must make positive efforts to use small businesses, minority-owned firms, women’s business
enterprises and veteran-owned businesses as sources of goods and services whenever possible. Recipients should take the steps outlined in the applicable administrative requirements (2 CFR Part 200.321)
to implement this policy.
8.3.4.4 Domestic Preferences for Procurements
The recipient or subrecipient should, to the greatest extent practicable and consistent with law, provide a
preference for the purchase, acquisition, or use of goods, products, or materials produced in the United
States (including but not limited to iron, aluminum, steel, cement, and other manufactured products). The
requirements of this section must be included in all subawards, contracts, and purchase orders  under
Federal  awards. See 2 CFR Part 200.322.
8.4 MONITORING
Recipients are responsible for managing the day-to-day operations of grant-supported activities using
their established controls and policies, as long as they are consistent with NIH requirements. However, to
fulfill their role in regard to the stewardship of Federal funds, NIH awarding ICs monitor their grants to
identify potential problems and areas where technical assistance might be necessary. This active monitoring is accomplished through review of reports and correspondence from the recipient, audit reports,
site visits, and other information available to NIH. The names and telephone numbers of the individuals
responsible for monitoring the programmatic and business management aspects of a project or activity
will be provided to the recipient at the time of award.
Monitoring of a project or activity will continue for as long as NIH retains a financial interest in the project or activity as a result of property accountability, audit, and other requirements that may continue for
a period of time after the grant is administratively closed out and NIH is no longer providing active grant
support (see Administrative Requirements—Closeout).
(GPS page IIA-148)

8.4.1 Reporting
NIH requires that recipients periodically submit financial and progress reports. Other required reports
may include annual invention utilization reports, lobbying disclosures, conflict of interest reports, audit
reports, reports to the appropriate payment points (in accordance with instructions received from the payment office), and specialized programmatic reports. Recipients also are expected to publish the results of
research in peer-reviewed journals and to provide information to the public on the objectives, methodology, and findings of their NIH-supported research activities, as specified in Administrative Requirements—Availability of Research Results: Publications, Intellectual Property Rights, and Sharing
Research Resources.
The GMO is the official receipt point for most required reports. However, NIH has centralized the submission of annual progress reports; details are provided below. In addition, electronic submission
through the eRA Commons is required for some annual progress reports and  closeout documents (final
grant progress reports and final invention statements and certifications). When a paper non-competing
continuation progress report is submitted, only a signed original is required; no copies are required. Submission of these reports to an address other than the centralized one may result in delays in processing of
the non-competing continuation award or the submission being considered delinquent. FFRs must be
electronically submitted to NIH (see Financial Reports below) through PMS unless otherwise indicated
in the award’s terms and conditions.
Recipients are allowed a specified period of time to submit required financial and final progress reports
(see 2 CFR 200.328 and 2 CFR Part 200.329, and the discussion in this subsection). Failure to submit
complete, accurate, and timely reports may indicate the need for closer monitoring by NIH or may result
in possible award delays or enforcement actions, including withholding, removal of certain NIH Standard Terms of Award, or conversion to a reimbursement payment method (also see Administrative
Requirements—Enforcement Actions). The schedule for submission of the non-competing continuation
progress report is discussed in the next subsection.
8.4.1.1 Non-Competing Continuation Progress Reports
Progress reports usually are required annually as part of the non-competing continuation award process.
NIH may require these reports more frequently. The  Research Performance Progress Report (RPPR)
must be submitted to, and approved by, NIH to non-competitively fund each additional budget period
within a previously approved project period (competitive segment). Except for awards subject to SNAP,
the progress report includes an updated budget in addition to other required information.
NIH requires the use of the RPPR for all Type 5 progress reports, including accessing the Human Subjects System link in the RPPR, if applicable, that will allow reporting of inclusion enrollment data.
Recipients may query eRA Commons Status and Research Performance Progress Report (RPPR) to view
a list their organization's pending grant progress reports and respective due dates. Late submission of a
grant progress report will result in delaying the issuance and funding of the non-competing continuation
award and may result in a reduced award amount.
Recipients also have an obligation to submit a complete and accurate progress report.  NIH program or
grants management staff may require additional information to evaluate the project for continued funding. Failure to provide this information will result in a delayed award. Incomplete or inadequate progress
reports may result in a delay of continued support.
The progress report for the final budget period of a competitive segment for which a competing continuation application is submitted will be part of that application; however, if an award is not made or the
(GPS page IIA-149)

recipient does not submit an application for continued support, a final RPPR is required (see Final
Research Performance Progress Report).
The NIH awarding IC will specify the requirements for progress reporting under construction grants or
grants supporting both construction activities, including acquisition or modernization, major alteration
and renovation, and non-construction activities.
8.4.1.1.1 Requirement for Commons ID
For progress reports using the RPPR, the Commons ID requirement is part of the Participants Section
and is required for the PD/PI(s) and those who worked on the project in a postdoctoral role. This could
include project roles such as Postdoctoral Associate and other similar Postdoctoral positions.
For undergraduate and graduate students supported on a particular research grant, a Commons ID is
required. Undergraduate and Graduate Student Roles have been added to the Commons to accommodate
this requirement; recipients are encouraged to begin registering these individuals now. For graduate students, this could include project roles of graduate research assistant or graduate student.
When an individual is assigned the Undergraduate, Graduate Student, and/or Postdoctoral Role in the
Commons, responses to certain data items in the Personal Profile tab will be required to meet NIH reporting requirements to Congress included in the NIH Reform Act, P.L. 109-482.
Note, the Graduate Student and Postdoctoral eRA Commons Roles should NOT be used for individuals
submitting Individual Fellowships; the PD/PI role is used for those submissions.  Nor should they be used
for individuals supported on institutional training grants and reported using xTrain; the Trainee Role
must continue to be used for those individuals.
A Commons ID is strongly encouraged, but currently optional, for all other project personnel.  A general
Commons Role of Project Personnel is available for those not assigned other Commons Roles.
8.4.1.1.2 Expectation for Institutions to Develop Individual Development Plans for
Graduate Students and Postdoctoral Researchers
In an effort to assist graduate students and post-doctoral researchers in achieving their career goals and
become contributing members of the biomedical workforce, NIH encourages recipients to develop an
institutional policy requiring that an Individual Development Plan (IDP) be implemented for every graduate student and postdoctoral researcher supported by any NIH grant and reportable on the progress
report, regardless of the type of NIH grant that is used for support.  This is an expectation that should be
broadly implemented by institutions for all graduate students and postdoctoral researchers supported by
NIH. The actual reporting of the implementation of this expectation is in the RPPR; recipients must
report in RPPR Section B. Accomplishments, Question B.4 the use of the IDP for graduate students
and/or postdoctoral researchers included in RPPR Section D. Participants or on a Statement of Appointment Form (PHS 2271).  Do not include the actual IDP; instead include information to describe how
IDPs are used, if they are used, to help manage the training for those individuals.
8.4.1.2 Streamlined Non-Competing Award Process
SNAP includes a number of provisions that modify annual progress reports, NoAs, and financial reports.
The NoA will specify whether an award is subject to SNAP. Awards routinely included in SNAP are
“K” awards and “R” awards, except R35. Awards excluded from SNAP are those that generally do not
have the authority to automatically carry over unobligated balances (centers; cooperative agreements,
Kirschstein-NRSA institutional research training grants, non-Fast Track Phase I SBIR and STTR
(GPS page IIA-150)

awards), clinical trials (regardless of activity code), P01, R35, and awards to individuals. However, these
grants can be included in SNAP on a grant-specific basis. In addition, specific awards may be excluded
from SNAP if:
 l they require close project monitoring or technical assistance, e.g., high-risk recipients, certain
large individual or multi-project grants, or grants with significant unobligated balances, or
 l the recipient has a consistent pattern of failure to adhere to appropriate reporting or notification
deadlines.
8.4.1.2.1 Modified Annual Progress Reports
While a modified, streamlined, progress report is still a feature of grants awarded under the SNAP authorities, a streamlined version of the RPPR has replaced the eSNAP module in the eRA Commons. For all
SNAP awards, the progress report is submitted using this streamlined version of the RPPR that does not
include detailed budget information.
8.4.1.2.2 Modified NoAs
Under SNAP, the GMO negotiates the direct costs for the entire competitive segment at the time of the
competing award or, in the case of modular awards, determines the applicable number of modules for
each budget period within the competitive segment. This eliminates the need for annual budget submissions and any negotiations, and reduces the information NIH requires to review, approve, and monitor non-competing continuation awards. SNAP NoAs are issued with only total direct and indirect costs
awarded for the budget period. While direct costs categorical breakdowns are not awarded, recipients are
required to allocate and account for costs by category in accordance with applicable cost principles.
Future year commitments on SNAP awards reflect total cost commitments (direct plus indirect costs).
8.4.1.2.3 Modified Financial Reporting Requirements
For awards under SNAP, an FFR is required only at the end of a competitive segment rather than annually. The FFR must be submitted within 120 days after the end of the competitive segment and must
report on the cumulative support awarded for the entire segment. An FFR must be submitted at this time
whether or not a competing continuation award is made. If no further award is made, this report will
serve as the final FFR (see Administrative Requirements—Closeout).
8.4.1.2.4 Submitting SNAP Progress Reports
All SNAP progress reports are due the 15th of the month preceding the month in which the budget
period ends (e.g., if the budget period ends 11/30, the due date is 10/15). If the 15th falls on a weekend
or Federal holiday, the due date is automatically extended to the next business day. Paper submissions
are not acceptable, will not be used for consideration for funding, and will not become part of the official
file. If a paper SNAP progress report is submitted, recipients will be required to resubmit the information
electronically.
The RPPR module in the eRA Commons allows recipients to electronically prepare and submit progress
reports and supporting documentation. The RPPR module provides the user with dedicated screens to collect the required progress report information, including appropriate uploads for text documents. Data submitted through RPPR for Performance Sites and Participants is retained in the system to assist the
recipient in completion of future progress reports.
(GPS page IIA-151)

The RPPR may be routed to authorizing officials at the applicant institution for review and approval
prior to submission to NIH. For SNAP awards, the RPPR module provides recipients with the option to
delegate to the PD/PI the authority to submit the progress report directly to NIH. This optional authority
is managed on a PD/PI basis in the eRA Commons; such authority can be rescinded at any time.
Guidance on RPPR submission is documented in the RPPR Instruction Guide.
8.4.1.3 Progress Reports for Multiyear Funded Awards
A limited number of NIH grant awards are multi-year funded, i.e., not funded in budget years but funded
in full at the start of the project period from a single fiscal year appropriation. The project period and the
budget period are the same in a multi-year funded (MYF) award and are longer than one year. Progress
reports for MYF awards are due annually on or before the anniversary of the budget/project period start
date of the award. A progress report is not required if the award is in a no-cost extension period unless
specifically required by the IC. The reporting period for a MYF progress report is the calendar year preceding the anniversary date of the award. For example, if an award is made on 04/01/2021, the MYF progress report is due on or before 04/01/2022, and should report on the activities performed under the
award between 04/01/2021 and 03/31/2022. For the subsequent year the MYF progress report will be
due 04/01/2023, and should report on the activities performed under the award between 04/01/2022 and
03/31/2023. Information on the content of a MYF progress report and instructions on how to submit the
report through the eRA Commons are posted at NIH Instructions for Progress Reports for Multi-year
Funded (MYF) Awards and NIH RPPR Instruction Guide. The multi-year research performance progress
report (MYRPPR) link to upload the report will be available two months before the anniversary date of
the award, on the eRA Commons Status search page in the folder “List of Applications/Grants” in the
“Action” column. Progress reports for MYF awards must be completed by the PD/PI, and then submitted
by a Signing Official (SO) or a PD/PI with delegated authority from the SO to submit a progress report.
Information about SO delegation of authority to a PD/PI to submit a progress report appears in the eRA
Commons User Guide under Section 10.2 Delegations..
8.4.1.4 Final Research Performance Progress Report (F-RPPR)
The F-RPPR has replaced the Final Progress Report for closeout. NIH is no longer accepting Final Progress Reports. Generally, the F-RPPR format is the same as the current annual RPPR. As part of the F-
RPPR recipients will be required to report on Project Outcomes. This section will be made publicly available, allowing recipients the opportunity to provide the general public with a concise summary of the
cumulative outcome or findings of the project (analogous to the Project Summary/Abstract section of the
competing application).
NIH will not maintain its previous Type 2 policy which stated that “whether funded or not” the progress
report contained in the Type 2 application may serve in lieu of a separate final progress report. NIH now
requires that organizations submit an Interim-RPPR while their Type 2 is under consideration. In the
event that the Type 2 is funded, NIH will treat the Interim-RPPR as the annual performance report for
the final year of the previous competitive segment. If the Type 2 is not funded, the Interim-RPPR will be
treated by NIH staff as the institution’s F-RPPR.
See the F-RPPR Instructions for more information. Recipients should also review the information found
in Final Research Performance Progress Report.
8.4.1.5 Financial Reports
PMS will pre-populate the cash transaction section (lines 10a through 10c) of the FFR using recipient
real-time cash advance information from PMS, and adjust recipient-reported disbursements to equal cash
(GPS page IIA-152)

advance drawdowns on all non-closed sub-accounts. Recipients will be required to certify at the time of
each drawdown whether the cash drawdown request is for reimbursement of actual expenditures or is an
advance for immediate disbursement; recipients must assert that award funds, including those issued to
subrecipients, are used in compliance with all award conditions and federal statutory requirements.
8.4.1.5.1 Financial Expenditure Reports
Reports of expenditures are required as documentation of the financial status of grants according to the
official accounting records of the recipient organization.  NIH requires all financial expenditure reports to
be submitted using the Payment Management System. This includes all initial FFRs being prepared for
submission and any revised FFRs being submitted or re-submitted to NIH. The eRA Commons and Payment Management systems allows participants to view information on currently due and late expenditure
reports and to submit these reports electronically to NIH through PMS. Paper expenditure reports are not
accepted. Expenditure data submitted to NIH is initially reviewed and accepted the FFR Reconciliation
and Financial Closeout Support Center (FFR-C) within the Office of Policy for Extramural Research
Administration (OPERA). NIH IC grants management staff also review these expenditure reports.
Except for awards under SNAP and awards that require more frequent reporting, the FFR is required on
an annual basis.  When required on an annual basis, the report must be submitted for each budget period
no later than 90 days after the end of the calendar quarter in which the budget period ended. The reporting period for an annual FFR will be that of the budget period for the particular grant; however, the
actual submission date is based on the calendar quarter. Failure to submit timely reports may affect
future funding. The report also must cover any authorized extension in time of the budget period. If more
frequent reporting is required, the NoA will specify both the frequency and due date.
In lieu of the annual FFR expenditure data, NIH will monitor the financial aspects of grants under SNAP
by using the information submitted directly to PMS. The GMO may review the report for patterns of
cash expenditures, including accelerated or delayed drawdowns, and to assess whether performance or
financial management problems exist. For these SNAP awards, FFR expenditure data is required only at
the end of a competitive segment. It must be submitted within 120 days after the end of the competitive
segment and must report on the cumulative support awarded for the entire segment. An FFR must be submitted at this time whether or not a competing continuation award is made. If no further award is made,
this report will serve as the final FFR (see Administrative Requirements—Closeout).
Before submitting FFRs to NIH, recipients must ensure that the information submitted is accurate, complete, and consistent with the recipient’s accounting system. When submitting the FFR through the Payment Management System, as applicable, the AOR or the individual designated to submit this report on
behalf of their institution, certifies that the information in the FFR is correct and complete and that all
outlays and obligations are for the purposes set forth in grant documents, and represents a claim to the
Federal government. Filing a false claim may result in the imposition of civil or criminal penalties.
8.4.1.5.2 Revised Financial Reports and Expenditures
Revisions for Indirect Cost Changes. Each Federal Financial Report submitted by the recipient shall
reflect the proper amount of indirect costs applicable to the grant period. If a provisional or an earlier
period’s permanent rate is used in the report, a subsequent adjustment to the FFR is necessary if a lower
permanent rate(s) applicable to the grant is established, except for Institutions of Higher Education
(IHEs) subject to 2 CFR 200.
Revised Expenditure Reports. NIH requires all financial expenditure reports (domestic and foreign) to
be submitted using the Payment Management System. This includes the initial FFR and any FFR
(GPS page IIA-153)

revisions being submitted or re-submitted to NIH. In some cases the recipient may have to revise or
amend a previously submitted annual or final FFR.  When the revision results in a balance of $20,000 or
greater due to NIH, the recipient must submit a revised report whenever the overcharge is discovered, no
matter how long the lapse of time since the original due date of the report, and post the refund to the
PMS document if the funds have not expired and are reconciled and closed in PMS. All refunds under
$20,000 on closed PMS documents should be sent directly to PMS with instruction to post the funds to
Miscellaneous Receipts. PMS refund instructions may be found on the Program Support Center
webpage. Revised expenditure reports representing additional expenditures by the recipient that were not
reported to NIH within the 90-day time frame may be submitted electronically with an explanation for
the revision. The explanation also should indicate why the revision is necessary and describe what action
is being taken by the recipient to preclude similar situations in the future. This should be done as
promptly as possible, but no later than one year from the due date of the original report for annual FFRs
and no later than 60 calendar days from the due date of the original report for final FFRs (i.e., 180 days
from the project end date).
8.4.1.5.3 Unobligated Balances and Actual Expenditures
Disposition of unobligated balances is determined in accordance with the terms and conditions of the
award. (See Administrative Requirements—Changes in Project and Budget for NIH approval authorities
for unobligated balances.) Using the principle of “first in-first out,” unobligated funds carried over are
expected to be used before newly awarded funds.
Upon receipt of the annual FFR for awards other than those with authority for the automatic carryover of
unobligated balances, the GMO will compare the total of any unobligated balance shown and the funds
awarded for the current budget period with the NIH share of the approved budget for the current budget
period. If the funds available exceed the NIH share of the approved budget for the current budget period,
the GMO may select one of the following options:
 l In response to a written request from the recipient, revise the current NoA to authorize the recipient to spend the excess funds for additional approved purposes.
 l Offset the current award or a subsequent award by an amount representing some or all of the
excess.
8.4.1.5.4 Recipient Reporting of Subrecipient Data and Executive Compensation
Information for Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act (FFATA)
A component of Public Law 109-282, the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006
as amended (FFATA), requires most recipients of new Federal funds to report on subawards/subcontracts/consortiums equal to or greater than $30,000. This includes awards that are initially
below $30,000 but subsequent grant modifications result in an award equal to or greater than $30,000.
Subaward reports are submitted in SAM.gov with subaward data ultimately distributed for publication
and display on www.USASpending.gov. Recipients are required to register with SAM.gov, collect the
necessary data from subrecipients, and file subaward reports by the end of the month following the
month in which the pass-through entity awards any subaward greater than $30,000.
FFATA specifies the data that should be captured for each pass-through entity and first-tier subrecipient
of Federal awards, regardless of award type. To promote data consistency and reduce reporting burdens,
existing agency data sources will be leveraged to pre-populate reports for pass-through entities as well as
for subrecipients when available. Recipients are responsible for confirming the pre-populated data and
providing any additional required information.
(GPS page IIA-154)

Included in these requirements is the need to report the names and total compensation of the five most
highly compensated officers of the entity if the entity as part of their registration profile in SAM in the
preceding fiscal year: 1) received 80 percent or more of its annual gross revenues in Federal grants, subawards, contracts, and subcontracts; and 2) received $25,000,000 or more in annual gross revenues from
Federal grants, subawards, contracts, and subcontracts; and 3) had gross income, from all sources, of
$300,000 or more; and 4) the public does not have access to this information about the compensation of
the senior executives of the entity through periodic reports filed under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(a), 78o(d)) or section 6104 of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986. See FFATA § 2(b)(1). Additionally, recipient organizations may be required to verify the following information in SAM.gov:
 l Organization UEI
 l Name and Address of organization
 l Parent UEI
 l Assistance listing number
 l FAIN
 l Federal Awarding Agency of the grant
8.4.1.6 Invention Reporting
A complete list of the reporting requirements under the Bayh-Dole Act can be found at 37 CFR 401.14.
The requirements also are specified in Administrative Requirements—Availability of Research Results:
Publications, Intellectual Property Rights, and Sharing Research Resources.
In addition to complying with Bayh-Dole-related regulations, each NIH competing grant application and
non-competing continuation progress report must indicate whether or not any subject inventions were
made during the preceding budget period. If inventions were made, the recipient must also indicate
whether they were reported.
The recipient also must submit an annual invention utilization report for all subject inventions to which
title has been elected and inventions that have been licensed but not patented (research tools). The utilization report provides a way to evaluate the extent of commercialization of subject inventions, consistent with the objectives of the Bayh-Dole Act.
A recipient’s failure to comply with invention reporting requirements and/or associated NIH policies on
intellectual property and resource sharing may result in the loss of patent rights or a withholding of grant
funds or other enforcement actions, including the imposition of specific terms and conditions.
Bayh-Dole regulations allow recipients to report inventions electronically (37 CFR 401.16). NIH
requires electronic reporting through an Internet-based system, Interagency Edison. To meet the objectives of the Federal Financial Assistance Management Improvement Act of 1999 (P.L. 106-107), recipients are required to submit invention reports to NIH using iEdison. The system supports confidential
transmission of required information and provides a utility for generating reports and reminders of
pending reporting deadlines. Further information about the system, including instructions for creating an
account needed to submit reports electronically, are on the iEdison site. Recipients also may contact the
Division of Extramural Inventions and Technology Resources Branch, OPERA, OER. See Part III for
contact information.
(GPS page IIA-155)

8.4.1.7 Financial Conflict of Interest Reports
Information related to FCOI reporting requirements can be found within Public Policy Requirements --
Financial Conflict of Interest.
8.4.1.8 Research Securities
In alignment with the CHIPS and Science Act of 2022 (P.L. 117-167) and National Security Presidential
Memorandum-33 (NSPM-33), NIH has established a series of requirements to strengthen research security across NIH-funded projects.
8.4.1.9 NIH Disclosure Requirements
As part of the application preparation and submission process, and annual progress report submission, all
individuals designated in an application as senior/key personnel are required to certify and submit information to assist reviewers and NIH staff in making informed recommendations and funding decisions.
Details on all required disclosures can be found in the NIH Disclosure Table. It is vital that submission
of such disclosure information be taken seriously. Failure to comply with terms and conditions related to
disclosure requirements may cause NIH to take action(s) to remedy non-compliance, such as disallowing
costs, withholding of further awards, or wholly or partly suspending the grant, pending corrective action
(see Remedies for Noncompliance or Enforcement Actions: Suspension, Termination, and Withholding
of Support).. Further, violations that are potentially criminal will be referred to the NIH Office of Management Assessment for consultation with the HHS Office of Inspector General, the Department of
Justice, or other law enforcement agencies, as appropriate.
8.4.1.10 Malign Foreign Talent Recruitment Program
In accordance with the CHIPS and Science Act of 2022 (P.L. 117-167) , individuals who are a current
party to a Malign Foreign Talent Recruitment Program (MFTRP) are not eligible to serve as a senior/key
person on an NIH grant or cooperative agreement.

8.4.1.11 Research Security Training
In accordance with the CHIPS and Science Act of 2022 (P.L. 117-167), each senior/key personnel listed
on an NIH grant application must certify that they have completed Research Security Training (RST)
within 12 months of the date of application submission. This individual certification is required at the
time of the application submission, through the Biographical Sketch in SciENcv.
The Act also requires applicant institutions to certify that each covered individual who is employed by
the institution and listed on the application has completed RST. The AOR, via their signature on the face
page of the application, certifies the applicant institution’s compliance with this requirement.
Completion of RST and the individual and institutional certifications is required for applications submitted for due dates on or after May 25, 2026.
8.4.2 Record Retention and Access
Recipients generally must retain financial and programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical
records, and all other records that are required by the terms of a grant, or may reasonably be considered
pertinent to a grant, for a period of 3 years from the date the annual FFR is submitted. For awards under
SNAP (other than those to Federal institutions), the 3-year retention period will be calculated from the
date the FFR for the entire competitive segment is submitted. Those recipients must retain the records
pertinent to the entire competitive segment for 3 years from the date the FFR is submitted to NIH.
(GPS page IIA-156)

Federal institutions must retain records for 3 years from the date of submission of the annual FFR to
NIH. See 2 CFR Part 200.334 for exceptions or qualifications to the 3-year retention requirement exist
(e.g., if any litigation, claim, financial management review, or audit is started before the expiration of the
3-year period), the records must be retained until all litigation, claims, or audit findings involving the
records have been resolved and final action taken).  Maintain the information for the retention period for
other types of grant-related records, including indirect cost proposals and property records. See 2 CFR
Part 200.334 and 2 CFR Part 200.337  for record retention and access requirements for contracts under
grants.
These record retention policies apply to both paper and electronic storage of applicable information,
including electronic storage of faxes, copies of paper document, images, and other electronic media. Institutions that rely on an electronic storage system must be able to assure such a system is stable, reliable,
and maintains the integrity of the information. When storing electronic images of paper documents, the
system must also assure a full, complete, and accurate representation of the original, including all official
approvals.
NIH, pass-through entities, Inspectors General, the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of
their authorized representatives, must have the right of access to any  records of the recipient or subrecipient pertinent to the NIH award,  to perform audits, execute site visits, or for any other official use.
This right also includes timely and reasonable access to the recipient's or subrecipient’s personnel for the
purpose of interview and discussion related to such documents or the NIH award in general.  NIH's rights
of access are not limited to the required retention period of this part but lasts as long as the records are
retained.  Pass-through entities must not impose any other access requirements upon subrecipients.
8.4.3 Audit
An audit is a systematic review or appraisal made to determine whether internal accounting and other
control systems provide reasonable assurance of the following:
 l Financial operations are properly conducted.
 l Financial reports are timely, fair, and accurately.
 l The entity has complied with applicable laws, regulations, and other grant terms.
 l Resources are managed and used economically and efficiently.
 l Desired results and objectives are being achieved effectively.
NIH recipients (other than Federal institutions) are subject to audit requirements in 2 CFR Part 200 Subpart F and in the NIHGPS (for types of organizations to which 2 CFR Part 200, Subpart F-Audit Requirements  do not directly apply). In general, 2 CFR Part 200, Subpart F- Audit Requirements  requires a State
government, local government, or non-profit organization (including institutions of higher education)
that expends $1,000,000 or more per year under Federal grants, cooperative agreements, and/or procurement contracts are required to have an annual audit by a public accountant or a Federal, State, or
local governmental audit organization. The audit must meet the standards specified in generally accepted
government auditing standards (GAGAS). The audit requirements for foreign recipients and for-profit
recipients are addressed in the chapters of this NIHGPS that provide specific requirements for those
types of recipients. In accordance with 2 CFR 200.101(a)(2), HHS has established for-profit audit
requirements at 2 CFR 300.218. See NIHGPS 18.4.5 for details on NIH’s implementation of the forprofit audit requirements.
As specified in the NoA, all awards issued by NIH meet the definition of “Research and Development”
at 2 CFR Part 200.1. As such, NIH grant awards are subject to the R&D cluster of program requirements
in the compliance supplement. NIH recognizes that some awards may have another classification for
(GPS page IIA-157)

purposes of indirect costs. The auditor is not required to report the disconnect (i.e., the award is classified as R&D for Federal Audit Requirement purposes but non-research for indirect cost rate purposes),
unless the auditee is charging indirect costs at a rate other than the rate(s) specified in the award document(s).
Exhibit 10. Summary of Audit Requirements
Recipient Type
Source of Audit Requirement
Where to Submit Audit Reports
State & Local
Governments
2 CFR 200.501
Federal Audit Clearinghouse
(See contact information in Part III)
Colleges &
Universities (IHEs)
2 CFR 200.501
Federal Audit Clearinghouse
(See contact information in Part III)
Non-Profits
2 CFR 200.501
Federal Audit Clearinghouse
(See contact information in Part III)
Hospitals
2 CFR 200.501
Federal Audit Clearinghouse
(See contact information in Part III)
For-Profits
NIH Grants Policy Statement
Audit Resolution Division
(See contact information in Part III)
Foreign
NIH Grants Policy Statement (same as
For-Profits)
Audit Resolution Division (See contact
information in Part III)

When a recipient procures audit services, the procurement must comply with the procurement standards
of 2 CFR Part 200, as applicable, including obtaining competition and making positive efforts to use
small businesses, minority-owned firms, women’s business enterprises, and veteran-owned enterprises.
Recipients should ensure that comprehensive solicitations made available to interested firms include all
audit requirements and specify the criteria to be used for selection of the firm. Recipients’ written agreements with auditors must specify the rights and responsibilities of each party.
2 CFR Part 200, Subpart F-Audit Requirements explains in detail the scope, frequency, and other aspects
of the audit. Some highlights of this regulation are as follows:
 l Covered organizations expending $1,000,000 or more per year in Federal awards are required to
have an audit performed in accordance with the regulation. However, if the awards are under one
program, the organization can have either a single organization-wide audit or a program-specific
audit of the single program, subject to the provisions of 2 CFR Part 200.507. NIH identifies one
program as all awards funded by one IC. Prior to electing a program-specific audit, the recipient
must obtain written prior approval from the relevant NIH awarding IC. Covered organizations
expending less than $1,000,000 in any year are exempt from these audit requirements in that
year but must have their records available for review as required by Administrative Requirements—Monitoring—Record Retention and Access.
(GPS page IIA-158)

l The reporting package must contain the following:
 o Financial statements and schedule of expenditures of Federal awards.
 o Independent auditor’s report, including an opinion on the financial statements and the
schedule of expenditures of Federal awards, a report on compliance and internal control
over financial reporting, and a report on compliance with requirements applicable to
each major program and on internal control over such compliance requirements.
 o A schedule of findings and questioned costs.
 o If applicable, a summary of prior audit findings and a corrective action plan.
 l An audit under 2 CFR Part 200, Subpart F-Audit Requirements is in lieu of a financial audit of
individual Federal awards. However, Federal agencies may request additional audits necessary to
carry out their responsibilities under Federal law or regulation. Any additional audits will build
upon work performed by the independent auditor.
 l The data collection form (SF-SAC) and a copy of the Single Audit reporting package must be
submitted electronically to the FAC at the address provided in Part III.
 l A senior level representative of the auditee (e.g., state controller, director of finance, chief executive officer, or chief financial officer) must sign a statement to be included as part of the data
collection that says that the auditee complied with the requirements of this part, the data were
prepared in accordance with this part (and the instructions accompanying the form), the reporting
package does not include protected personally identifiable information, the information included
in its entirety is accurate and complete, and that the FAC is authorized to make the reporting
package and the form publicly available on a web site. Exception:  An auditee that is an Indian
tribe or a tribal organization (as defined in the Indian Self- Determination, Education and Assistance Act (ISDEAA), 25 U.S.C. 450b(l)) may opt not to authorize the FAC to make the reporting
package publicly available on a web site, by excluding the authorization for the FAC publication. If this option is exercised, the auditee becomes responsible for submitting the reporting
package directly to any pass-through entities through which it has received a Federal award and
to pass-through entities for which the summary schedule of prior audit findings reported the
status of any findings related to Federal awards that the pass-through entity provided. Unless
restricted by Federal statute or regulation, if the auditee opts not to authorize publication, it must
make copies of the reporting package available for public inspection.
If the schedule of findings and questioned costs discloses an audit finding related to an HHS or NIH
award or if the schedule of prior audit findings reports the status of any audit finding relating to an HHS
or NIH award, the FAC will provide copies of the audit report to NEARC, OIG, HHS. NEARC will, in
turn, distribute them within HHS for further action, as necessary. Audit reports should not be sent directly to the GMO. The threshold for reporting questioned costs is described in 2 CFR Part 200.516.
Recipients must follow a systematic method for ensuring timely and appropriate resolution of audit findings and recommendations, whether discovered as a result of a Federal audit or a recipient-initiated
audit. Recipients usually are allowed 30 days from the date of request to respond to the responsible audit
resolution official (Action Official) concerning audit findings. Failure to submit timely responses may
result in cost disallowance or other actions by NIH or HHS. At the completion of the audit resolution process, the recipient will be notified of the Action Official’s final decision. The recipient may appeal this
decision if the adverse determination is of a type covered by NIH or HHS grant appeals procedures (see
Administrative Requirements—Grant Appeals Procedures). Refunds owed to the Federal government as
a result of audit disallowances must be made in accordance with instructions issued by the Action Official or OFM.
(GPS page IIA-159)

It is imperative that recipients submit required  2 CFR Part 200, Subpart F audits within the time limits
specified in the regulation. If recipients are delinquent in complying with the provisions of the regulation,  NIH will take one or more actions that may result in the loss of Federal funds. No audit costs
will be allowed either as indirect costs or direct costs to Federal awards if the required audits have not
been completed or have not been conducted in accordance with the provisions of 2 CFR Part 200, Subpart F.
See Cost Considerations—Allowability of Costs/Activities—Selected Items of Cost for the allowability
of audit costs.
8.5 SPECIFIC AWARD CONDITIONS AND REMEDIES FOR
NONCOMPLIANCE (SPECIFIC AWARD CONDITIONS AND
ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS)
A recipient’s failure to comply with the terms and conditions of award, including confirmed instances of
research misconduct, may cause NIH to take one or more actions, depending on the severity and duration
of the non-compliance. NIH will undertake any such action in accordance with applicable statutes, regulations, and policies. NIH generally will afford the recipient an opportunity to correct the deficiencies
before taking action unless public health or welfare concerns require immediate action. However, even if
a recipient is taking corrective action, NIH may take proactive actions to protect the Federal government’s interests, including placing specific conditions on awards or precluding the recipient from
obtaining future awards for a specified period, or may take action designed to prevent future non-compliance, such as closer monitoring.
8.5.1 Specific  Award Conditions: Modification of the Terms of Award
During grant performance, the GMO may include specific award conditions in the grant award to require
correction of identified financial or administrative deficiencies as a means of protecting NIH’s interests
and effecting positive change in a recipient’s performance or compliance. When specific conditions are
imposed, the GMO will notify the recipient in writing of the nature of the conditions, the reason why
they are being imposed, the type of corrective action needed, the time allowed for completing corrective
actions, and the method for requesting reconsideration of the conditions. See 42 CFR Part 52.9 and 2
CFR Part 200.339.
The NIH awarding IC may withdraw approval of the PD/PI or other senior/key personnel specifically referenced in the NoA if there is a reasonable basis to conclude that the PD/PI and other such named senior/key personnel are no longer qualified or competent to perform the research objectives. In that case,
the awarding IC may request that the recipient designate a new PD/PI or other named senior/key personnel.
Generally, the decision to modify the terms of an award (e.g., by imposing specific award conditions) is
discretionary on the part of the NIH awarding IC and is not appealable.
8.5.2 Remedies for Noncompliance or Enforcement Actions: Suspension, Termination, and Withholding of Support
NIH may implement specific award conditions if a recipient or subrecipient fails to comply with the U.S.
Constitution, Federal statues, regulations, or the terms and conditions of award., When NIH determines
that noncompliance cannot be remedied by imposing specific conditions, NIH may take one or more of
the following actions:
(GPS page IIA-160)

l  Temporarily withhold payments until the recipient or subrecipient takes corrective action.
 l Disallow costs for all or part of the activity associated with the noncompliance by the recipient
or subrecipient.
 l Suspend or terminate the Federal award in part or in its entirety.
 l Initiate suspension or debarment proceedings as authorized in 2 CFR Part 180.
 l Withhold further Federal funds (new awards or continuation funding) for the project or program
 l Pursue other legally available remedies in consultation with the HHS Office of General Counsel,
NIH Branch.
The regulatory procedures requirements that pertain to suspension and termination are specified in 2
CFR Parts 200.340 through 200.343.
An NIH award may be terminated in part or in its entirety as follows:
 1) By NIH if the recipient fails to comply with the terms and conditions of the Federal award.
 2) By NIH with the consent of the recipient (i.e. bilateral termination), in which case the two
parties must agree upon the termination conditions. These conditions include the effective date
and, in the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated.
 3) By the recipient upon sending NIH a written notification of the reasons for such termination, the
effective date, and, in the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated. However, if
NIH determines that the remaining portion of the award will not accomplish the purposes for
which the award was made, NIH may terminate the Federal award in its entirety.
 4) By NIH pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Federal award, including, to the extent
authorized by law, if the award no longer effectuates the program goals or agency priorities.
In accordance with the requirements outlined in 2 CFR Part 200.341, NIH must provide written notification of termination to the recipient. The written notice of termination will include the reasons for termination, the effective date, and the portion of the award to be terminated, if applicable.
If an NIH award is terminated due to the recipient's material failure to comply with the Federal award,
the notification must state that:
 1. The termination decision will be reported to the OMB-designated integrity and performance system accessible through SAM.gov.
 2. The information will be available in SAM.gov for a period of five years from the date of the termination, then archived;
 3. If NIH considers making a Federal award to the recipient during that five year period, NIH and
other Federal agencies must consider this information in judging whether the recipient is qualified to receive the NIH award, when the NIH share of the award is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold over the period of performance;
 4. The recipient may comment on any information in SAM.gov about the recipient for future consideration by Federal awarding agencies. The recipient may submit comments in SAM.gov.
 5. NIH may consider the recipient’s comments when determining whether the recipient is qualified
for a future NIH award.
Upon termination of an award, NIH will  provide the information required by FFATA to USAspending.gov. In addition, NIH will update or notify any other relevant government-wide systems or entities of
any indications of poor performance as required by 41 U.S.C. 2313 and 31 U.S.C. 3321.
(GPS page IIA-161)

When the recipient fails to comply with the terms and conditions of the award, NIH generally will suspend (rather than immediately terminate) a grant and allow the recipient an opportunity to take appropriate corrective action before NIH makes a termination decision. However, NIH may decide to
terminate the grant if the recipient does not take appropriate corrective action during the period of suspension. NIH may immediately terminate a grant when necessary, such as to protect the public health
and welfare from the effects of a serious deficiency. Termination  due to the recipient’s failure to carry
out its approved project in accordance with the applicable law and the terms and conditions may be
appealed under NIH and HHS grant appeals procedures (see Administrative Requirements—Grant
Appeals Procedures).
A grant also may be terminated, partially or totally, by the recipient or by NIH with the consent of the
recipient (i.e., bilateral termination). If the recipient decides to terminate a portion of a grant, NIH may
determine that the remaining portion of the grant will not accomplish the purposes for which the grant
was originally awarded. In any such case, NIH will advise the recipient of the possibility of termination
of the entire grant and allow the recipient to withdraw its termination request. If the recipient does not
withdraw its request for partial termination, NIH may initiate procedures to terminate the entire grant.
See Cost Considerations—Allowability of Costs/Activities—Selected Items of Cost for the allowability
of termination costs. Allowability of these costs does not vary whether a grant is terminated  by NIH, terminated at the request of the recipient, or terminated by mutual agreement.
Withholding of support is a decision not to make a non-competing continuation award within the current
competitive segment. Support may be withheld for one or more of the following reasons:
 l Adequate Federal funds are not available to support the project.
 l A recipient failed to show satisfactory progress in achieving the objectives of the project.
 l A recipient failed to meet the terms and conditions of a previous award.
 l For whatever reason, continued funding would not be in the best interests of the Federal government.
The recipient may appeal NIH’s determination to deny (withhold) a non-competing continuation award
because the recipient failed to comply with the terms and conditions of a previous award.
8.5.3 Other Enforcement Actions
Depending on the nature of the deficiency, NIH may use other means of promoting recipient compliance.
Other options available to NIH include, but are not limited to conversion from an advance payment
method to a reimbursement method or disallow (deny) all or part of the cost of the activity or action not
in compliance. Other actions may include suspension or debarment of an organization or individual
under Government-wide Debarment and Suspension rules provided at 45 CFR Part 76, and other available legal remedies, such as civil action. Suspension under 45 CFR Part 76, implementing E.O.s 12549
and 12689, “Debarment and Suspension,” is a separate action from the “suspension” of an award as a
post-award remedy, as described in Suspension, Termination, and Withholding of Support above. The
subject of debarment and suspension as an eligibility criterion is addressed in Completing the Pre-Award
Process—Determining Eligibility of Individuals and Public Policy Requirements and Objectives—
Debarment and Suspension.
8.5.4 Recovery of Funds
NIH may identify and administratively recover funds paid to a recipient at any time during the life cycle
of a grant. Debts may result from cost disallowances, unobligated balances, unpaid share of any required
(GPS page IIA-162)

matching or cost sharing, funds in the recipient’s account that exceed the final amount determined to be
allowable, or other circumstances. NIH guidance on the repayment of grant funds that are unrelated to
audit findings can be found on the Grants Compliance and Oversight page.
8.5.5 Debt Collection
The debt collection process is governed by the Federal Claims Collection Act, as amended (Public Law
[P.L.] 89-508, 80 Stat. 308, July 19, 1966); the Federal Debt Collection Act of 1982 (P.L. 97-365, 96
Stat. 1749, October 25, 1982); the Debt Collection Improvement Act (P. L.104-134, 110 Stat. 1321,
April 26, 1996); and, the Federal Claims Collection Standards (31 CFR Parts 900-904), which are implemented for HHS in 45 CFR 30. NIH is required to collect debts due to the Federal government and,
except where prohibited by law, to charge interest on all delinquent debts owed to NIH by recipients.
When NIH determines the existence of a debt under a grant, written debt notification will be provided to
the recipient. Unless otherwise specified in law, regulation, or the terms and conditions of the award,
debts are considered delinquent if they are not paid within 30 days from the date the debt notification is
mailed to the recipient. Delinquent debts are subject to the assessment of interest, administrative cost
charges, and penalties. The interest on delinquent debts accrues on the amount due beginning on the date
the debt notification is mailed to the recipient.
If a recipient appeals an adverse monetary determination under 42 CFR Part 50, Subpart D, or 45 CFR
Part 16, interest will accrue but assessment will be deferred pending a final decision on the appeal. If the
appeal is not successful, interest will be charged beginning with the date the debt notification was mailed
to the recipient, not the date of the appeal decision. Interest charges will be computed using the prevailing rate in effect on the date the debt notification is mailed, as specified by the Department of the
Treasury and 45 CFR Part 30.13(a)(2).
8.6 CLOSEOUT
The requirement for timely closeout is generally a recipient responsibility. However, NIH may initiate
unilateral closeout if a recipient does not provide timely accurate closeout reports or does not respond
timely to NIH requests to reconcile discrepancies in grant records. Recipients must submit a final FFR,
Final RPPR, and Final Invention Statement and Certification within 120 calendar days of the end of the
period of performance (i.e., project period end date). The reports become overdue on day 121. Note that
no-cost extensions update the project period end date and submission deadlines.
When recipients fail to submit timely reports, NIH will initiate unilateral closeout. If a recipient does not
submit all required closeout reports within a year of the project period end date, NIH will unilaterally
close the award and report the recipient’s failure to comply with the terms and conditions of award in
SAM.gov. In addition, failure to correct recurring reporting problems may cause NIH to take one or
more actions that may include, but are not limited to, corrective actions, withholding or further awards,
suspension or termination.
Failure to submit timely and accurate closeout documents may affect future funding to the organization.
NIH will close out a grant as soon as possible after the project period end date (no later than one year
after the project period end date in accordance with 2 CFR Part 200.344) if the grant will not be extended or after termination.
Closeout includes ensuring timely and accurate submission of all required reports and adjustments for
amounts due the recipient or NIH. Closeout of a grant does not automatically cancel any requirements
for property accountability, (see section 8.3.3.2.1 Exempt Property and 8.3.3.2.2 Nonexempt Property),
record retention, or financial accountability. Recipients generally must retain financial and programmatic
records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other records that are required by the terms of
(GPS page IIA-163)

the grant, or may reasonably be considered pertinent to a grant, for a period of 3 years from the date the
annual FFR is submitted. (See 8.4.2 Record Retention and Access, for further information). Following
closeout, the recipient remains obligated to return funds due as a result of later refunds, corrections, or
other transactions, and the Federal government may recover amounts based on the results of an audit covering any part of the period of grant support.
A subrecipient must submit to the recipient, no later than 90 calendar days (or an earlier date as agreed
upon in the subaward agreement  after the project period end date, all reports as required by the terms and
conditions of award.
8.6.1 Final Federal Financial Report
A final FFR is required for
 l any award that is terminated,
 l any award that is transferred to a new recipient, or
 l any award, including awards under SNAP, which will not be extended through award of a new
competitive segment.
Recipients are required to electronically submit the final FFR through the Payment Management System.
The final FFR must cover the entire competitive segment or as much of the competitive segment as has
been funded before termination. Final FFRs must indicate the exact balance of unobligated funds and
may not reflect any unliquidated obligations. There must be no discrepancies between the Federal share
of expenditures reported on the final FFR and the net cash disbursements reported in PMS on the Transactions section of the FFR. It is the recipient’s responsibility to reconcile reports prior to submission to
PMS and to the NIH awarding IC. Withdrawal of the unobligated balance following completion date or
termination of a grant is not considered an adverse action and is not subject to appeal (see Administrative Requirements—Enforcement Actions—Recovery of Funds).
When the submission of a revised final FFR results in additional claims by the recipient, NIH will consider the approval of such claims subject to the following minimum criteria:
 l The recipient must indicate why the revision is necessary and explain and implement internal
controls that will preclude similar occurrences in the future.
 l The charge must represent otherwise allowable costs under the provisions of the grant.
 l There must be an unobligated balance for the budget period sufficient to cover the claim.
 l The funds must still be available for use.
 l NIH must receive the revised final FFR within one year of its original due date.
8.6.2 Final Research Performance Progress Report
A Final RPPR required for any grant that is terminated and any award that will not be extended through
award of a new competitive segment. If a competitive renewal (Type 2) application has been submitted,
the recipient must submit an Interim-RPPR while their renewal application is under consideration. In the
event that the Type 2 is funded, NIH will treat the Interim-RPPR as the annual performance report for
the final year of the previous competitive segment. If the Type 2 is not funded, the Interim RPPR will be
treated by NIH staff as the institution’s Final RPPR.
A Final RPPR should be prepared in accordance with the requirements in the RPPR Instructions found
on the NIH RPPR web site and any specific requirements set forth in the terms and conditions of the
(GPS page IIA-164)

award. In addition to the standard requirements detailed in those Instructions, recipients should also
report additional information required by the awarding IC in program-specific final progress report
instructions.
Final RPPR Instructions for SBIR/STTR Phase II Reports are in Section 7.3. of the RPPR Instructions.
8.6.3 Final Invention Statement and Certification
The recipient must submit a Final Invention Statement and Certification (HHS 568), whether or not the
funded project results in any subject inventions, and whether or not inventions were previously reported.
The HHS 568 must list all inventions that were conceived or first actually reduced to practice during the
course of work under the project, and it must be signed by an AOR. The completed form should cover
the period from the original effective date of support through the  completion date or termination of the
award, and it should be submitted to the NIH awarding IC. If there were no inventions, the form must
indicate “None.” For certain programs (activity codes = C06, , D42, D43, D71, DP7, G07, G08, G11,
G13, K12, K16, K30, P09, P40, P41, P51, R13, R25, R28, R30, R90, RL5, RL9, S10, S14, S15, U13,
U14, U41, U42, U45, UH4, UC6, UC7, UG4, UR2, X01, X02, Ts, and Fs), the Final Invention Statement and Certification is not currently required. For questions, the recipient should contact NIH awarding IC for specific instructions.
When invention reporting is required, the HHS 568 does not relieve the responsible party of the obligation to assure that all inventions are promptly and fully reported directly to  NIH, as required by terms of
the award. Copies of the HHS 568 form are available on the iEdison web site at http://iEdison.gov and at
Forms Directory.
8.6.4 Submission of Closeout Documents
All closeout documents must be submitted electronically via eRA Commons (Final RPPR and Final
Invention Statement) or PMS (Final FFR), as applicable. NIH no longer accepts paper or e-mail submissions.
8.7 GRANT APPEALS PROCEDURES
HHS permits recipients to appeal certain post-award adverse administrative decisions made by HHS officials (see 45 CFR Part 16 and appendix to Part 16). NIH has established a first-level grant appeal procedure that must be exhausted before an appeal may be filed by the recipient with the Departmental
Appeals Board (DAB) (see 42 CFR Part 50, Subpart D). NIH will assume jurisdiction for the following
adverse determinations set forth in 42 CFR Part 50.404:
 l Termination, in whole or in part, of a grant for failure of the recipient to carry out its approved
project in accordance with the applicable law and the terms and conditions of award or for failure of the recipient otherwise to comply with any law, regulation, assurance, term, or condition
applicable to the grant.
 l Determination that an expenditure is not allowable under the grant has been charged to the grant
or that the recipient has otherwise failed to discharge its obligation to account for grant funds.
 l Denial (withholding) of a non-competing continuation award for failure to comply with the
terms of a previous award.
 l Determination that a grant is void (i.e., a decision that an award is invalid because it was not
authorized by statute or regulation or because it was fraudulently obtained).
(GPS page IIA-165)

The formal notification of an adverse determination will contain a statement of the recipient’s appeal
rights. In the first level appeal of an adverse determination, the recipient must submit a request for
review to the NIH official specified in the notification, detailing the nature of the disagreement with the
adverse determination and providing supporting documents in accordance with the procedures contained
in the notification.
“The request for review must include a copy of the adverse determination, must identify the issue(s) in
dispute, and must contain a full statement of the recipient’s position with respect to such issue(s) and the
pertinent facts and reasons in support of the recipient’s position. In addition to the required written statement, the recipient shall provide copies of any documents supporting its claim.” 42 CFR Part 50.406(b).
The recipient’s request to NIH for review must be submitted no later than 30 days after the written notification of the adverse determination is received;  however, an extension may be granted if the recipient
can show good cause why an extension is warranted (42 CFR Part 50.406(a)).
If the NIH decision on the appeal is adverse to the recipient or if a recipient’s request for review is rejected on jurisdictional grounds, the recipient then has the option of submitting a request to the DAB for a
further review of the case in accordance with the provisions of 45 CFR Part 16. A prospective appellant
must submit a notice of appeal to the DAB within 30 days after receiving the final NIH decision. “The
appellant must have exhausted any preliminary appeal process required by regulation.” 45 CFR Part 16.3
(c).
In addition to the adverse determinations indicated above, the DAB is the single level of appeal for disputes related to the establishment of indirect cost rates, research patient care rates, and certain other cost
allocations used in determining amounts to be reimbursed under NIH grants (e.g., cost allocation plans
negotiated with State or local governments and computer, fringe benefit, and other special rates. The
determination leading to such disputes may be made by an HHS official other than the GMO and may
affect NIH grants as well as other HHS grants.
8.8 ALIGNMENT WITH PROGRAM GOALS AND AGENCY
PRIORITIES
As stewards of taxpayer funds, NIH is committed to delivering results that matter to the public, per a
Unified Strategy that aligns our priorities and funding approaches. See, e.g., Advancing NIH’s Mission
Through a Unified Strategy and its addenda. Therefore, NIH may terminate awards, to the extent authorized by law, if an award no longer effectuates the program goals or agency priorities. These termination
actions are not terminations for noncompliance with terms and conditions of award, and they are not
appealable under 2 CFR 200.342 or 42 CFR 50, subpart D.
When a recipient accepts an NIH award, they agree  that continued funding for the award is contingent
upon the availability of appropriated funds, recipient satisfactory performance, compliance with the
Terms and Conditions of the award, and ongoing alignment with program goals or agency priorities.
(GPS page IIA-166)

PART II: TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF NIH GRANT
AWARDS
Subpart B: Terms and Conditions for Specific Types of Grants,
Recipients, and Activities
This Subpart includes terms and conditions that vary from, are in addition to, elaborate on, or highlight
the standard requirements and terms and conditions in IIA because of the type of grant, recipient, or
grant-supported activity. Each chapter of IIB specifies how the coverage relates to that in IIA and must
be used in conjunction with IIA to determine all of the applicable terms and conditions of a covered type
of activity, recipient, or award.
This Subpart contains the following chapters:
 l Multiple Program Director/Principal Investigator Applications and Awards
 l Construction, Modernization, or Major Alteration and Renovation of Research Facilities (this
chapter also includes requirements for specified A&R activities under non-construction grants)
 l Individual Fellowships and Institutional Research Training Grants (also termed “fellowships”
and “training grants”) under the Kirschstein-NRSA program
 l Career Development Awards
 l Modular Applications and Awards
 l Support of Scientific Meetings (Conference Grants)
 l Consortium Agreements
 l Grants to Foreign Organizations, International Organizations, and Domestic Grants with a Foreign Component
 l Grants to Federal Institutions and Payments to Federal Employees Under Grants
 l Grants to For-profit Organizations
 l Research Patient Care Costs.
(GPS page IIB-1)
