NIH Grants Policy Statement (FY 2026 revision) — Introduction
Source: https://grants.nih.gov/policy-and-compliance/nihgps

INTRODUCTION
The National Institutes of Health Grants Policy Statement (NIHGPS) is intended to make available to
NIH recipients, in a single document, the policy requirements that serve as the terms and conditions of
NIH grant awards. These terms and conditions apply not only to the recipients of NIH Grant Awards, but
also flow down to any subawards as well as to subrecipients unless specified otherwise in the regulation
or the terms and conditions of the specific NIH award (see "Consortium Agreements" on page IIB-109).
This document also is designed to be useful to those interested in NIH grants by providing information
about NIH, its organization, its staff and its grants process. The NIHGPS is available online. This version includes many links within the document as well as links to some web resources outside of this document. Users are strongly encouraged to use the on-line version of this document to benefit from these
links.
NIHGPS ORGANIZATION
The NIHGPS has three parts, which allows general information, application information, and other types
of reference material to be separated from legally binding terms and conditions:
 l Part I: NIH Grants General Information. Part I (chapters 1 and 2) contains a glossary defining
commonly used terms and abbreviations used throughout the document; describes NIH and its
relationship to other organizations within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS);
specifies recipient, NIH, and other HHS staff responsibilities and outlines the grant application
and review processes.
 l Part II: Terms and Conditions of NIH Grant Awards. Part II (chapters 3-19) includes generally
applicable terms and conditions (Part IIA). This part also specifies the terms and conditions that
apply to particular types of grants, recipients, and activities that differ from, supplement, or elaborate on the standard terms and conditions (Part IIB). These requirements, in separate chapters,
pertain to multiple PD/PI applications and awards; construction, modernization and major alteration and renovation grants; research training grants and fellowships; career development
awards; modular applications and awards; conference grants, consortium agreements; grants to
foreign and international organizations (and grants with substantial foreign components awarded
to domestic organizations), grants to Federal institutions and payments to Federal employees;
grants to for-profit organizations; and research patient care activities.
 l Part III: Points of Contact. Part III (chapter 20) lists pertinent offices with their contact information.
CONVENTIONS
Certain conventions are followed throughout this document. The term “grant” is used to mean both
grants and cooperative agreements; however, for clarity, certain sections mention both grants and cooperative agreements. The term “recipient” generally is used to refer to recipients of grants and cooperative
agreements. “NIH” may be used in this document to refer to the entire organization or to its component
organizations, or else to contrast an action by NIH, including actions by its ICs, with an action by a recipient or other organization. A reference to “Part II (IIA or IIB)” or “Part III” without further elaboration
means the corresponding part of the NIHGPS.
SUPERSESSION
ii

This version of the Grants Policy Statement includes policies and requirements that have been published
via Guide Notices in effect as of March 17. 2026. The updates published in this version of the GPS consolidate all such Guide Notices and supersede the April 2024 version of the NIHGPS.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
The Office of Policy for Extramural Research Administration (OPERA) develops and maintains this document. Changes in statutes, regulations, or policies that take effect before the next revision of the
NIHGPS will be published separately in the NIH Guide for Grants and Contracts. Recipients are responsible for reviewing the NIH Guide for Grants and Contracts for changes and for implementing them, as
appropriate. Subscribe to the NIH Guide for Grants and Contracts Listserv at https://-
grants.nih.gov/funding/nih-guide-for-grants-and-contracts/subscribe.
iii
